OpenAlex: A fully-open index of scholarly works, authors, venues, 
institutions, and concepts
Jason Priem*, Heather Piwowar*, Richard Orr*
*jason@ourresearch.or g; heather@ourresearch.or g; richard@ourresearch.or g 
OurResearch, 500 Westover Dr #8234, Sanford, NC, 27330 (USA)
Introduction
In May 2021, Microsoft announced that it was discontinuing support for Microsoft Academic 
Graph (Sinha, Shen, et al., 2015), a free and widely-used Scientific Knowledge Graph (SKG).
This was met with considerable concern, as MAG was viewed as dif ficult to replace with 
existing systems  (T ay, Martín-Martín, and Hug, 2021).  The OpenAlex project was created to 
address this concern. It launched as a drop-in replacement for MAG contemporaneously with
MAG’ s retirement on January 1st 2022.
Although still in its nascency , as a fully-open (100% open data, open API, open-source code) 
source of scholarly metadata, OpenAlex has potential to improve the transparency of research
evaluation, navigation, representation, and discovery , adding to the growing list of other open 
and partly-open SKGs such as  OpenCitations (Peroni, Shotton, & Vitali, 2017),  AMiner 
(Tang, Zhang et al., 2008),  PID Graph (Fenner & Aryani, 2019), Open Research Knowledge 
Graph (Jaradeh, Oelen et al., 2019),  Semantic Scholar (Ammar , Groeneveld et al., 2018), and 
the OpenAIRE research graph (Manghi, Atzori et al., 2019).
Schema and IDs
The OpenAlex dataset is a heterogeneous directed graph, composed of five types of scholarly
entities, and the connections between them.

---PAGE---
STI Confer ence 2022 · Granada
Figur e 1: Sketch of the OpenAlex graph data model.
All entities are assigned a persistent OpenAlex ID, which acts as a primary key in the dataset.
This ID is expressed as a URL, which can resolve to either a human-readable (webpage) or
machine-readable (JSON object) representation. Where possible, entities are also assigned 
IDs from external systems, in order to increase interoperability . Particular ef fort is given to 
assinging a Canonical External ID (CEID). The CEID varies by entity type, and was selected 
based on the extent of its adoption by the community .
The OpenAlex entities
There are five types of entities in OpenAlex: works, authors, venues, institutions, and
concepts:
Works
Works are scholarly documents like journal articles, books, datasets, and theses. Although all 
entities are “first-class citizens” in the OpenAlex graph, works are particularly important,
because connection to scholarly works is what makes authors, venues, institutions, and
concepts “scholarly .” Much of the information about the links between works and other 
entities is obtained by parsing work metadata–either in structured form (eg, in the Crossref
API) or unstructured form (eg, on a publisher landing page).
OpenAlex indexes about 209M works, with about 50,000 added daily . The CEID for works is 
DOI; about half of works have one. We collect new works from many sources, including 
Crossref, PubMed, institutional and disciplinary repositories (eg, arXiv). In addition to these
sources, MAG is a key source data source for older works.
Authors
Authors are defined as people who create works. OpenAlex indexes about 213M authors, with
thousands added daily . The CEID for authors is ORCID; only a small percentage of authors 
have an ORCID, but the percentage is higher for authors of more recent works. OpenAlex
uses ORCID as a feature to help algorithmically disambiguate authors, when it is available.
The system also uses authors’  publication records and citation histories in the disambiguation

---PAGE---
STI Confer ence 2022 · Granada
algorithm. Authors are connected to works via the “authorship” object, which formalises the 
three-way claim customarily expressed in work metadata: “author
A
, affiliated with 
institution(s)
I
, is a creator of work
W
.”
Venues
Venues are defined as places that host works. OpenAlex indexes about 124,000 venues. There 
are several types, including journals, conferences, preprint repositories, and institutional
repositories. The CEID for venues is ISSN-L  or “linking ISSN.” The ISSN-L  is a single ISSN 
that groups all the ISSNs a particular publication may have . About 90% of venues in 
OpenAlex have an ISSN-L  or ISSN. Works are often hosted in multiple venues, often in 
multiple versions. For example, a work may live in preprint form on arXiv , but as a version of 
record (V oR) on a publisher ’s webpage. OpenAlex uses a fingerprinting algorithm to match 
these two versions, and report them both, flagging the VoR as the primary host. The system 
also automatically determines the version and licence of all copies, where possible.
Institutions
Institutions are or ganisations to which authors claim af filiations. OpenAlex indexes about 
109,000 institutions. The CEID for institutions is the ROR ID; about 94% of institutions in 
OpenAlex have ROR IDs. In order to link institutions to works, we parse every af filiation 
listed by every author; these strings are obtained from both structured sources (eg, PubMed)
and unstructured ones (publisher webpages). We extract and normalise institution strings from 
affiliation statements, then link them to ROR IDs where possible; this is done using a
two-step algorithm that combines both rules-based and machine-learning stages. Like authors,
institutions are linked to works via an “authorship” object.
Concepts
Concepts are abstract ideas that works are about. OpenAlex indexes about 65k concepts. The 
CEID for OpenAlex concepts is the Wikidata ID, and all concepts have one, because all 
OpenAlex concepts are also Wikidata concepts. Concepts are hierarchical; there are 19 
root-level concepts, and 5 layers of descendents branch out from them. The concept tree, 
which is a modified version of the one used in MAG, contains about 65 thousand concepts in
total. Works are assigned concepts based on their titles and abstracts, using an automated 
classifier that was trained on MAG’ s corpus. The code and models behind this classifier are 
open-source. Around 85% of works have at least one concept assigned.
Open distribution
There are three ways to obtain data from OpenAlex: a full data dump (updated fortnightly), a
REST  API (updated daily), and a web-based GUI (built on our own REST  API). All these are 
free and require no registration or permission. The REST  API has no rate-limits, although for 
high query loads (more than 100k/day) the data dump is recommended instead. The code 
behind OpenAlex is fully Open Source, and is available on the OurResearch GitHub account
(
https://github.com/ourresearch
). OpenAlex is a project
of OurResarch, a nonprofit devoted to 
open scholarly principles and an early adopter of The Principles of Open Scholarly 
Infrastructure (POSI; Bilder , Lin, & Neylon, 2020) which provide guidance for sustainably 
open development.
---PAGE---
STI Confer ence 2022 · Granada
Limitations and futur e work 
The OpenAlex project is still quite young, and there are many areas for improvement.
Foremost is continued improvement in the parsing, normalisation, and disambiguation of
entities, especially authors and institutions. This is particularly important given the real-world 
implications of this metadata, which may (rightly or wrongly) be used in high-stakes
evaluation contexts. The dataset currently lacks metadata about funding sources, as well as 
metadata about corresponding authors. Overall, much work remains to be done in validating
and studying completeness and accuracy of the dataset, particularly in comparison to similar
tools. However , by leveraging, extending, and opening MAG’ s work, OpenAlex of fers a 
promising alternative to toll-access data sources in this space.
Acknowledgements
Development of OpenAlex is funded by a grant from Arcadia: A charitable fund of Lisbet 
Rausing and Peter Baldwin. Thomas Scheidsteger and Robin Haunschild provided very 
helpful feedback on an early draft.
Refer ences 
Ammar , W., Groeneveld, D., Bhagavatula, C., Beltagy , I., Crawford, M., ... Etzioni, O. 
(2018). Construction of the literature graph in semantic scholar . Proceedings of the 2018 
Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: 
Human Language Technologies, Volume 3 (pp. 84–91). Association for Computational 
Linguistics. https://doi.or g/10 .18653/v1/ N18-301 1
Bilder G, Lin J, Neylon C (2020), The Principles of Open Scholarly Infrastructure, retrieved 
29 April 2022,
https://doi.or g/10.24343/C34W2H
Fenner , M., & Aryani, A. (2019). Introducing the PID graph. https:// doi.or g/10.5438/ 
JWVF-8A66
Jaradeh, M. Y., Oelen, A., Farfar , K. E., Prinz, M., D’Souza, J., ... Auer , S. (2019). Open 
research knowledge graph: Next genera- tion infrastructure for semantic scholarly knowledge.
In Proceed- ings of the 10th International Conference on Knowledge Capture (pp. 243–246).
New York: Association for Computing Machinery .
https://doi.or g/10.1 145/3360901.3364435
Manghi, P ., Atzori, C., Bardi, A., Schirrwagen, J., Dimitropoulos, H., ... Summan, F . (2019). 
OpenAIRE Research Graph Dump. Zenodo. https://doi.or g/10.5281/zenodo.3516918
Peroni, S., Shotton, D., & Vitali, F . (2017). One year of the Open- Citations Corpus. In C. 
d’Amato et al. (Eds.), The semantic web – ISWC 2017 (pp. 184–192). Cham: Springer . 
https://doi.or g/10 .1007/978-3-319-68204-4_19
Sinha, A., Shen, Z., Song, Y., Ma, H., Eide, D., ... Wang, K. (2015). An overview of Microsoft 
Academic Service (MAS) and applica- tions. In Proceedings of the 24th International
Conference on World Wide Web (pp. 243–246). New York: Association for Computing 
Machinery . https://doi.or g/10.1 145/2740908 .2742839
---PAGE---
STI Confer ence 2022 · Granada
Tang, J., Zhang, J., Yao, L., Li, J., Zhang, L., & Su, Z. (2008). Arnet- Miner: Extraction and 
mining of academic social networks. In Proceedings of the 14th ACM SIGKDD International 
Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (pp. 990–998). New York: 
Association for Computing Machinery . https://doi.or g/10 .1 145/1401890.1402008
Tay, Aaron, Martín-Martín, Alberto and Hug, Sven E. (2021) Goodbye, Microsoft Academic 
– hello, open research infrastructure? Impact of Social Sciences Blog (27 May 2021).
Retrieved 30 April, 2022, http://eprints.lse.ac.uk/id/eprint/1 11325
---PAGE---
