1 
 This is the author -accepted manuscript. The final version of record was published in 
the Journal of Information Science.  
 
Cite as : Zahed i, Z., Zhang , Y., Han, Z., Zheng, E.T.,  & Fang , Z. (2026). Organisational accounts 
engaged in scholarly communication on Twitter: Pat terns of presence, activity  and engagement . 
Journal of Information Science . https://doi.org/ 10.1177/01655515261421164  
 
Organisation al accounts engag ed in scholarly communication on 
Twitter: Patterns of p resence, activity  and engagement  
 
Zohreh Zahedi1,3, Yanqing Zhang2, Zekun Han2, Er-Te Zheng4, Zhichao Fang2,3* 
* Corresponding author: z.fang@cwts.leidenuniv.nl  
1. Department of Information Science, Faculty of Humanities, Persian Gulf University, Bushehr, Iran . 
2. School of Information Resource Management, Renmin University of China, Beijing, China.  
3. Centre for Science and Technology Studies (CWTS), Leiden University, Leiden, the Netherlands.  
4. School of Information, Journalism and Communication, the University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.  
 
Abstract : Organisation al accounts are an integral  part of the Twitter  (now X) ecosystem . 
This study identified 9,842 research - and policy -related organisation al accounts that 
had tweeted about scholarly  publications  by linking  three global organisation al 
databases (GRID, ROR, and Overton) with two altmetric databases containing  Twitter 
data (A ltmetric and the former  Crossref Event Data). The resulting  openly available  
dataset  was used to  examine organisation al activity in schola rly communication across 
three dimensions: social media  capital , tweeting activity, and engagement level . The 
results show that , compared to all Twitter user s engaged in  scholarly communication , 
organisation al accounts hold a  notable advantage in terms of follower bases and the 
proportion of scholarly  tweets. Their scholarly tweets achieve high visibility through  
likes  and retweets  but perform weakly in generating  more conversational forms of 
engagement , such as quotes and replies. Distinct patterns emerge across organisation al 
---PAGE---
2 
 categories : research facilities , in particular,  demonstrate  the strongest focus on scholarly 
tweeting , whereas  government accounts  are comparatively more  successful in eliciting  
engagement  across all metrics, including th e more  interactive ones . This study 
contributes both an open dataset of organisation al accounts and a methodological 
framework for their identif ication , while also highlight ing the important roles that 
organisation s play in shaping scholarly discourse  on social media.  
Keywords : Altmetrics, social media metrics, organisation s, scholarly communication, 
social media  engagement , X (Twitter)  
 
1. Introduction  
Social media has increasingly play ed an important role in informal scholarly 
communication and in fostering public engagement with science  [1]. Th ese 
developments  create opportunities  to trac e broader forms of attention to scholarly 
outputs beyond the academic community . As a result,  the field  of social media metrics  
has emerged , focusing on the  measure ment of  online activity sur round ing scholarly 
entities – such as scholarly publications  and researchers  – acros s a variety of  platforms  
[2]. The objectives of these metrics include enhancing ou r understanding of  public 
engagement with science and exploring  their potential  applications  in research 
evaluation , scholarly  communication , and broader societal engagement  [3]. 
Unlike  traditional academic citations, which are primarily generated  by members of  the 
academic  community who possess the expertise  and motivation to produce  research 
outputs, social media activity  surrounding scholarly work  can originate from a wide 
variety  of actors . These  range from academics  and students  to journalists  and members 
of the general public  [4–6]. This heterogeneity presents  both opportunities and 
challenges for social media metrics  [7]. On the one hand, it enables the capture of  
attention and engagement  from broader  societal stakeholders.  On the other hand , it 
complicates the interpretation of social media a ttention, since  different types of users 
may be driven by distinct motivations when  engag ing with  scholarly content . 
To address the interpretive challenges  posed  by this heterogeneity, numerous  studies 
have sought  to identify and classify the  types of social media users involved in the 
dissemination of scholarly outputs. Within  the diverse and continuously  evolving social 
media landscape, t his line of inquiry  is particularly important for deepening our 
understanding of the nature of online  attention to scholarly outputs  and for assessing 
---PAGE---
3 
 the implications  of social media metrics  in the context of expanding  research evaluation 
frameworks.  Existing studies have generally pursued two main approaches : (1) 
classify ing different types of users directly from social media datasets , and (2)  
identify ing particular categories  of users based on pre -compiled list s of entities.  
1.1. Classification  of different  user types  
Within  the first research workflow, many studies  have classified social media users 
engaged  in scholarly communication  into different typologies . Three  primary methods 
have been  employed : manual annotation , content analysis , and network -based 
approaches . 
Manual annotation is typically  applied to relatively small datasets . In this approach,  
researchers classify users according to  codebooks  and self -developed schemes, often 
drawing on  information from users’  social media profiles [5, 6, 8 –13]. While manual 
annotation provides detailed and context -sensitive catego rization, it is time-consuming 
and therefore  usually limited to small  samples . For larger dataset s, researchers have 
generally relied on automated or semi -automated methods, such as content analysis of 
user bio graphie s or the constructi on of  social  network s based on user interactions.  
User  biographie s (bios) provide  direct evidence of self -presentation across  dimensions  
such as  occupation, academic title, gender, and personal or professional interest s. 
Accordingly , many studies  have classified users into identit y groups by analyzing the 
textual content of bios. Approaches include keyword  matching  [14], machine learning  
[15], co-word analysis  [16–18], and topic modelling [19]. A notable example is the 
classification system used by  Altmetric , which  categorizes  Twitter users into four broad 
types: researcher s, practitioner s, science communicator s, and member s of the public 
[20, 21] . 
Beyond  textual analysis, social networks among users offer a more indirect means of 
classification . Because  users  with similar backgrounds or interests tend to interact more 
frequently, relationships such as  following, mentioning, and retweeting  can be used  to 
construct networks and identify communities  of users  who share disciplinary 
affiliations or topical interests  [22–28]. 
Collectively, t hese studies underscore the  divers ity of participants involved in the social 
media dissemination of scholarly outputs . Both academic actors  (e.g., researchers, 
journals, and scholarly societies) and non-academic users (e.g., members of  the public ) 
actively  share, discuss, and circulate  scholarly work  [5, 6, 18] . Importantly, these 
---PAGE---
4 
 groups are often motivated  by distinct factors  [4, 29 –31], reinforcing  the idea  that social 
media engagement with scholarly content  is complex  and must  be interpreted with 
careful attention to  user demographic s. 
Nevertheless , this first research workflow has notable  limitations. Manual annotation 
is restricted to small samples , while  clustering approaches based on  user bios or social 
networks often yield  only coarse -grained categories. As a result , these methods may 
struggle to ass ign users to clearly defined identities or to capture the nuanced 
motivations that underlie their engagement with scholarly content.  
1.2. Identification of specific types of users  
In contrast to the classification approach , the second research workflow aims to 
generate  more explicit dataset s of particular  types of users. Studies in this area often 
begin  with a predefined  list of entities  – such as scholars , scholarly journals, or 
universities  – and then identify which of th ese entities are active in scholarly 
communication  on social media  [32]. A typical example  is the identification of scholars  
who use Twitter to share scholarly publications. For instance, previous  research has 
matched the bibliographic information of authors with  publications indexed in the Web 
of Science  or OpenAlex  against the demo graphic and profile information of Twitter 
users sharing schol arly content , thereby constructing  dataset of scholars active on 
Twitter [33, 34] . Beyond author name matching , some studies have also used 
occupation -related terms  such as “biologist ” or “economist ” to retrieve Twitter lists 
named after these occupations , which can then be used to identify  potential scholar 
users includ ed in th ose lists [35, 36] . 
In addition to individual academics, several  studies  have examined the presence of 
scholarly journals on social media. Researchers have curated lists of journal names and 
searched for them across platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, and WeChat to assess  
the uptake and activity of journals.  Reported adoption rates vary depending on the  
platform  and journal set studied , rang ing from 7.2% of journals  in Social Science 
Citation Index  (SSCI) with a Facebook presence [37], to 22.2% of journals in Science 
Citation Index -Expanded  (SCIE)  with Twitte r accounts  [38], and as high as 84.4% of 
journals in Chinese Science Citation Database  (CSCD) with WeChat accounts  [39]. 
Beyond journals , research ers have also  investigated the social media presence  of other 
organisation al types, including  universities  and departments  [40–42], academic  
libraries  [43, 44] , scholarly book publishers [45], and companies [46]. These studies 
provide valuable insights into how different organisation s adopt social media tools to 
---PAGE---
5 
 increase their visibility.  
Another area of particular focus has been  bot accounts , which play  an important role in 
the online dissemination of scholarly content  [47]. In addition to  manual identification, 
automated tools such as Bot or Not?  and BotometerLite  have been applied  in identif ying 
bots in the context of scholarly communication  [48, 49] . Although bots account for only  
a small fraction of users tweeting abou t science  (estimated between 0.2%  to 1.2%) , they 
contribute  a disproportionate ly large share of  tweets containing  scholarly content 
(ranging from 2.9% to 51.3%) [6, 14, 26, 48 –52]. This amplification is especially 
pronounced in fields such as the  life and ear th sciences , where bots substantially boost 
the volume of scholarly tweets  [9]. 
1.3. Objectives of the study  
Previous research has made substantial  contribut ions to understanding the social media 
presence  of various  user group s and the roles  they play in online scholarly 
communication . However, comparatively  little attention has been given to 
organisation s, despite their importance as institutional actors linking research 
production, policy processes, and public engagement . As noted earlier , open datase ts 
have been developed for several user types, including  individual researchers, scholarly 
journals, and bots, which have greatly facilitated investigations into  their tweeting 
behaviors and influence. Yet,  a dedicated dataset of organisation al Twitter accounts  
remains unavailable. This absence  limits  empirical research on an important class  of 
actors whose activities may differ systematically from those of individuals . 
Addressing  this gap is valuable for several reasons. First, a n open dataset of 
organisation al accounts would  enable  future research to more effectively investigate 
how institutions  communicate and shape scholarly discourse online, supporting work 
in scientometrics , altmetrics , and science communication. Second, such a dataset would 
benefit  policym akers and research institutions seeking to understand how organisation s 
contribute to the dissemination and visibility of scientific knowledge on social media. 
Third , a descriptive analysis of organisation al tweeting activity and engagement 
provides insight into  the institutional dimension of online scholarly communication, 
complementing existing research  that has largely focus ed on individual -level 
participation . 
To achieve these goals , the present  study focuses on Twitter1  and examine s how 
 
1 It is important to note that Twitter was the official name of X before its acquisition by Elon Musk. As 
---PAGE---
6 
 research - and policy -related organisation s use the platform to engage in online 
communication surrounding sc holarly publications. Specifically , we (1) construct an 
open dataset of Twitter accounts operated  by organisation s that ha ve tweet ed about 
scholarly  publications, and (2) address  the following research questions (RQs):  
 RQ1. How do the scholarly tweeting patterns of organisation s compare  with those 
of all Twitter accounts engag ed in scholarly communication?  
 RQ2 . How do scholarly  tweeting pattern s vary across different  categories of 
organisation s? 
 
2. Data and methods  
To construct  a dataset of organisation al accounts involved in scholarly communication  
on Twitter, we performed a two -step process. First, we compiled a comprehensive list 
of organisation s based on three major databases: GRID , ROR , and Overton . Second, we 
matched this  list against  Twitter accounts that had tweeted about scholarly  publications, 
as recorded by two altmetric data aggregators : Altmetric  and Crossref Event Data . This 
section describes  how the organisation al and Twitter account  datasets were retrieved 
and how the matching process  was carried out . 
2.1. Dataset of organisation s 
To obtain a global  dataset of research - and policy -related organisation s, we integrated 
information from  three complementary databases : GRID, ROR, and Overton . The 
following provides a brief  introduction and the snapshot date of the version used for 
data retrieval for each organisation al database:  
 GRID  (Global Research Identifier Database, https://www.grid.ac ) is an open 
database of unique identifiers  for research -related organisation s, released by 
Digital Science  in 2015 . Although GRID was discontinued in 2021 in favor of  its 
successor – the Research Organisation  Registry (ROR)  – its historical releases 
remain openly available via Figshare. From the GRID d atabase maintained at the 
Cent re for Science and Technology Studies (CWTS) , Leiden University ( snapshot : 
September 2021 ), we  extracted 106,149 distinct organisation s. 
 
Twitter was the official name during our data collection in March 2023  for this study , we continue to use 
the term throughout the  study, as well as the  related terms such as tweet, retweet, like, quote, and reply.  
---PAGE---
7 
  ROR  (Research Organisation  Registry,  https://ror.org/ ) is an open database of 
persistent identifiers for research organisation s, initially seeded from  GRID but 
independently maintained  since 2022 . Operated collaboratively by  the California 
Digital Library, Crossref, and DataCite, ROR provides identifiers  and metadata for 
a wide range of global  organisation s. From the  CWTS  in-house ROR database 
(snapshot : August 2024), we extracted 138,546 distinct organisation s. 
 Overton  (https://www.overton.io/ ) is a biblio graphic  database of policy documents 
launched in 2019 . Overton indexes documents from  policy -related organisation s 
worldwide , including  government agencies , intergovernmental organisation s, and 
think tanks [53]. From the CWTS in -house Overton database ( snapshot : July 2024), 
we retrieved  2,244 distinct organisation s. 
After cleaning and deduplication across  the three sources , we compiled  a final list of 
111,280 unique  organisation s. For each organisation , we retained d etailed metadata  – 
such as full name, alias es, address, and website URL  – where availabl e from the source  
databases.  
2.2. Dataset of Twitter  accounts  
To examine  which organisation s engage in  scholarly communication  on Twitter, we 
constructed  a comprehensive  database of scholarly tweets , defined as  tweets that 
reference  scholarly  publications.  Tweet IDs were sourced  from two major altmetric data 
providers:  Altmetric and Crossref Event Data . Below, we provide a  brief  overview of 
each data source, along with  the snapshot date of the version used for data retrieval:  
 Altmetric ( https://www.altmetric.com ), founded in 2011 and now part of Digital 
Science , is one of the most widely used  altmetric data aggregators. Altme tric 
monitors  a broad  range of online sources to capture events related to research 
outputs, including new s outlets, blogs, Mendeley , and social media platforms such 
as Twitter and Facebook. From the CWTS in -house Altmetric database ( snapshot : 
November 2022) , which was constructed using  dump files provided by Altmetric , 
we retrieved 175,852,041 unique tweet IDs that referenc ed scholarly publications . 
 Crossref Event Data ( CED,  https://www.crossref.org/services/event -data/ ) is an 
altmetric service maintained  by Crossref and accessible via a public API . CED  
track s online events surround ing research outputs  from diverse  sources including  
news outlets, blogs, Wikip edia, and social media platforms . Twitter data was 
included until February 2023 . From the CWTS in -house CED  database  (snapshot : 
---PAGE---
8 
 January 2023) , constructed  using  the CED API, we retrieved 75,286,156 tweet IDs 
of scholarly  tweets.  
In March 2023 , we used the Twitter API to collect  detailed metadata  for all tweets 
recorded by both Altmetric and CED.  After performin g data cleaning and deduplication  
– including the removal of unavailable tweets, primarily due to deletion s or account 
suspension s [54] – we compiled a final database of  150,586 ,368 scholarly  tweets posted 
by 10,119,331 distinct Twitter accounts.  
The resulting  database contains detailed information on both tweets and accounts. For 
tweets, we collected engagement metrics  such as the  number of likes, retweets, quotes, 
and replies. For accounts, we retrieved  profile information including user ’s name, 
profile website URL, self-reported  geolocation , and cou nts of followers and followings . 
2.3. Matching process to identify  organisation al Twitter accounts  
Figure 1 presents  the workflow used to  identif y organisation al accounts that tweeted 
about scholarly  publications. We first matched organisation s and Twitter accounts based 
on organisation al full names, aliases, and profile information. For each candidate pair 
of organisation  and Twitter account, we conducted manual verification using additional 
information such as the  organisation ’s address, the self -reported geolocation of the 
Twitter account, and Twitter links embedded in the organisation ’s official website.  
Following this manual validation process, we identified a total of  9,842 Twitter 
accounts operated  by organisation s included in  our datasets.  
 
---PAGE---
9 
  
Figure  1. Workflow for identify ing organisation al accounts on Twitter . The snapshot 
version s of the databases  used and the ir corresponding  data volume s are indicated  in 
the top frames , which represent  the datasets of organisation s and Twitter accounts, 
respectively.  
 
2.4. Categorization of organisation s 
To analyze organisation al activity on Twitter, we classified the identified organisation s 
into seven main categories. This categorization was primarily derived from  the ROR 

---PAGE---
10 
 taxonomy2. For organisation s indexed  exclusively  in Overton, we assigned categories  
according to  the same  scheme , using  the organisation  type information provided by 
Overton3. Table 1 presents the final classification system , including brief definitions , 
associated subcategories , and  illustrative examples for each main  category to clarify  
their composition . 
 
Table 1. Categorization of organisation s. 
Main 
category  Definition  Subcategories  Illustrative 
examples  
Nonprofit  Independent organisation s that operate 
for public, charitable, advocacy , or 
research -support  purposes rather than 
for profit, often promoting research, 
education, or policy development.  Foundation; 
association; society; 
non-governmental 
organisation ; think 
tank; charity  Age UK; Angel 
Foundation; 
Associatio n of 
University Presses  
Company  For-profit private -sector entities 
engaged in commercial, industrial, or 
financial activities that may support or 
apply scientific research.  Company; bank 
unaffiliated with 
government  IBM; Intel; Philips  
Education  Academic  institutions dedicated to 
teaching, learning, and research, 
encompassing higher education and 
professional training organisation s. University; college; 
school; polytechnic  ETH Zurich; 
University of 
Cambridge; 
Harvard University  
Healthcare  Institutions that provide medical 
services, clinical  care, and health -
related  research, often involved in 
producing or applying biomedical Hospital; medical 
center  Cleveland Clinic; 
St. Vincent’s 
Medical Center; 
Soroti Hospital  
 
2 See more information about the organisation  types of ROR from the documentation introducing the 
fields of ROR metadata: https://ror.readme.io /docs/fields . 
3  Among the 9,8 42 identified  organisation s with Twitter accounts, 9,531 had organisation  type 
information available from  ROR  or GRID, allow ing for  direct classifi cation according to the  scheme  
presented  in Table 1 . For the remaining 311 organisation s that were exclusively indexed in Overton , 
classification was based on Overton’s own taxonomy. Overton categorizes  its indexed organisation s into 
three primary types : government s, inter -governmental organisation s (IGO s), and think tanks. Following  
the scheme  in Table 1, both governments and IGOs were assigned to  the main category “ Government”, 
while think tanks were  classified under  “Nonprofit”.  
---PAGE---
11 
 knowledge.  
Facility  Specialized organisation s or 
infrastructures focused on conducting , 
supporting , or enabling  research, 
experimentation, observation, or data 
collection.  Lab; observatory; 
research institution; 
municipal facility  Vatican 
Observatory ; Spiez 
Laboratory; 
Quadra m Institute  
Government  National or international public -sector 
bodies responsible for policymaking, 
regulation, governance, or public 
funding in  areas including  science, 
education, or societal affairs.  Government 
department; inter-
governmental 
organisa tion; non -
departmental public 
body  United Nations; 
Government of 
Spain; City of 
Sydney  
Archive  Cultural and knowledge -preserving 
institutions that collect, curate, manage, 
and provide access to scientific, 
historical, or natural  heritage resources.  Library; museum; 
archive; zoo; 
botanic garden  National Library of 
Australia; British 
Museum; National 
Zoological Park  
 
2.5. Indicators  
Based on the detailed information collected for both  scholarly  tweets and Twitter 
accounts, we developed a set of indicators to measure the scholarly tweeting patterns 
of accounts. Following the  framework  proposed  by Díaz -Faes et al. [17], the indicators  
were grouped  into three  dimensions:  (1) social media capital , (2) tweeting activity , and  
(3) engagement level . Table 2 summarizes  the indicators and their definitions.  
 
Table 2 . Indicators measur ing the scholarly  tweeting patterns of Twitter accounts.  
Dimension  Indicator  Definition  
Social media capital  Followers  Number of users who follow an account.  
Followings  Number of users an account follows.  
Tweeting activity  Annual tweets  Average number of tweets an account posts per year, 
calculated as the total number of tweets divided by the 
number of years between the account’s creation year and 
the Twitter data collection year (2023).  
Annual s cholarly Average number of scholarly tweets an account post s per 
---PAGE---
12 
 tweets  year, calculated as the total number of scholarly tweets 
divided by the number of years between the account’s 
creation year and the Twitter data collection year (2023) . 
Scholarly tweets are defined as  those referenc ing 
scholarly publications , as recorded by Altmetric and 
CED.  
Originality rate  Proportion of original scholarly  tweets among all 
scholarly  tweets posted by an account. Higher value s 
indicate a greater tendency to  post original content  rather 
than retweet s. 
Scholarly focus  
rate Proportion of scholarly tweets among all tweets posted 
by an account. Higher value s indicate a stronger  focus  on 
disseminating  scholarly  publications.  
Engagement level  Average l ikes Average number of likes received per original scholarly 
tweet posted by  an account.  
Average r etweets  Average number of retweets received per original 
scholarly tweet posted by an account.  
Average q uotes  Average number of quotes received per original scholarly 
tweet posted by an account.  
Average r eplies  Average number of replies received per original scholarly 
tweet posted by an account.  
 
Based on this classification:  
(1) Social media capital: The number of followers  and followings  reflects an account’s  
accumulated social media capital. Higher values indicate  greater potential to attract 
attention and disseminate information to a broader audience.  
(2) Tweeting activity: Annual tweets  captures an account’s overall activity on the 
platform since its creati on, while the remaining three indicators focus specifically on 
scholarly communication. Annual  scholarly tweets  quantify the extent to which  an 
account shares scholarly publications  over time . Originality rate  measures  the extent to 
which an account posts original scholarly content rather than simply retweeting others’ 
posts [54]. Scholarly focus rate  reflects the proportion of an account’s total tweets 
dedicated to scholarly publications, distinguishing research -oriented accounts from 
those sharing  more general content.  
---PAGE---
13 
 (3) Engagement level: To assess the visibility and audience response to original 
scholarly tweets, we calculated  average likes , average retweets , average quotes , and 
average replies . Higher values on these indicators suggest stronger  visibility and 
interaction with scholarly content within the Twitter ecosystem.  
2.6. Analytical approaches  
To evaluate  the scholarly tweeting behavior of organisation al accounts within the 
broader Twitter landscape , we calculated relative measures of all indicators by 
considering the full set of 10,119,331 Twitter accounts in our database  – that is,  all users 
who had tweet ed about scholarly publications at least once, as recorded by Altmetric 
and CED  (see Section  2.2 for details on  dataset construction ). Because  the absolute 
values of many  indicators vary widely  across accounts  (see Table A1 in Appendix A) , 
we computed the percentile  rank for each indicator  to enable  meaningful comparisons.  
The percentile rank position s each organisation al account  relative to the entire  
population of Twitter user s engag ed in scholarly communication . A higher percentile 
rank indicates stronger performance on a given indicator compared to the rest of the 
accounts. Percentile rank s for each indicator were  calculated as follows : 
 Compute the value of each  indicator for every  Twitter account, including both the 
identified organisation al accounts and all other  accounts  (N = 10,119,331 ). 
 Sort all accounts in ascending  order based on the indicator values . 
 Determine  the percentile rank for each account, yielding values between 0 and 1.  
A higher percentile rank  thus reflects  stronger performance relative to the full set of 
accounts , not only organisation al ones. For example, to assess  the relative activity level  
of an organisation al account using the  annual tweets  indicator , we first  calculate  this 
value  for all accounts in the dataset  and then  rank them in  ascending order . If an 
organisation al account achieves a percentile rank of 0.9 , it has posted more tweets  per 
year since its creation  than 90% of all accounts, signifying a high level of tweeting 
activity.  
In the subsequent  analyses , we report  only the percentile rank s of indicators achieved 
by the organisation al accounts. It is important to note that , for each indicator examined , 
highe r percentile ranks represent a relative advantage  of organisation al accounts 
compared with all other Twitter users engag ed in scholarly communication, whereas 
lower percentile ranks indicate comparatively weaker performance . 
---PAGE---
14 
  
3. Results  
3.1. An open dataset of organisation al accounts  on Twitter  
We identified 9,842 distinct organisation al accounts that had tweet ed about scholarly  
publications, thereby  contributing to  scholarly communication  on Twitter. This d ataset 
is openly available at  https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.31321240  and is intended to  
facilitate  future research on the presence and activities of  organisation al accounts on 
social media . 
Figure 2 shows the distribution of  these accounts across the seven organisation al 
categories. Nonprofits represent the largest group  (N = 3,353), followed by companies 
(N = 2,359 ) and educational organisation s (N = 1,730).  This distribution is consistent 
with earlier finding s on health -related organisation s engaged in Twitter discussions of  
health literacy  [55], where  nonprofits also emerged as the most active, followed by 
companies and educational organisation s. These three categories thus appear as the 
most prominent organisation al actors  in scholarly communication on Twitter.  
 
 
Figure 2 . Distribution  of the 9,842 identified organisation al accounts across 
categor ies. 
 
3.2. Overall scholarly  tweeting patterns  of organisation al accounts  

---PAGE---
15 
 As shown in Figure 3, organisation al accounts demonstrate a clear advantage i n social 
media capital , as reflected  by their relatively high percentile ranks for both followers  
and followings  compared with  all Twitter users engaged in scholarly communication . 
Most organisation al accounts rank within the top 10% of users with respect to number 
of followers , highlighting their strong capacity to attract large audiences. Many also 
follow a comparatively larger  number of users, although this behavior varies 
substantially across organisation s, as indicated by the wide distribution of percentile 
ranks for followings . 
 
 
Figure 3 . Percentile  rank distribution s of the 9,842 organisation al accounts for social 
media capital , calculated relative to the full set of  10,119,331  Twitter accounts  in the 
dataset . Median values are shown above each distribution.  
 
Organisation al accounts also exhibit distinct tweeting activity patterns (Figure 4). 
Although  the distribution  of annual tweets  (median percentile rank = 0.50) indicates  a 
moderate level of  overall  activity  compared with other Twitter users , organisation s are 
considerably more active in scholarly tweeting. This trend is particularly evident for 
annual scholarly tweets , originality rate , and scholarly focus  rate, whose  kernel density 
and boxplot distributions cluster above 0.6. In other words, organisation al accounts tend 
to post more scholarly tweets  per yea r, contribute a higher proportion of original content, 

---PAGE---
16 
 and maintain a stronger focus on scholarly publications  than the broader population of 
Twitter users engaged in scholarly communication.  
 
 
Figure 4. Percentile  rank distribution s of the 9,842 organisation al accounts for 
tweeting activity , calculated relative to the full set of  10,119,331 Twitter accounts in 
the dataset . Median values are shown above each distribution.  
 
In terms of engagement with original scholarly tweets (Figure 5),  organisation al 
accounts show contrasting patterns across the four  metrics. Their scholarly tweets  
achieve high visibility through  average  likes and average retweets , with median 
percentile rank s of 0.79 and 0.86, respectively , placing nearly half of the organisation s 
among the top 20% of all Twitter users. By contrast, for average  quotes  and average  
replies  – forms of engagement  that require deeper conversational interaction  – only a 
small subset  of organisation s reach high levels (percentile ranks between 0.8 and 1 ), 
while the majority cluster  near the lower end of the distribution . These results suggest  
that, although organisation al tweets are effective in attracting attention , they are 
generally less successful in stimulat ing dialogue or sustained discussion.  
 

---PAGE---
17 
  
Figure 5 . Percentile  rank distribution s of the 9,842 organisation al accounts for 
engagement level , calculated relative to the full set of  10,119,331 Twitter accounts in 
the dataset . Median values are shown above each distribution.  
 
3.3. Scholarly  tweeting patterns across different types of organisation al accounts  
Across all categories, organisation al accounts consistently possess greater  social media 
capital  than other Twitter users engaged in scholarly communication  (Figure 6 ). This 
advantage is  reflected in their relatively high percen tile ranks for both  followers  and 
followings , particularly for the former . Nonetheless, differences emerge across 
categories. Governments, archives, nonprofit s, and educational organisation s generally 
attract larger follower bases than companies, healthcare institutions, and facilities. In 
addition, nonprofits and archives stand out for their higher levels of followings , 
suggesting stronger tendencies toward recip rocal connectivity and network building.  
The descriptive statistics by organisation al category are consistent with the  percentile 
rank results  (see Table A2 in Appendix A) : government  organisation s tend to 
accumulate  the largest follower base s, while  nonpr ofits and archives follow  a greater 
number of other Twitter users , reinforcing their comparatively more interactive 
networking behavior . 
 

---PAGE---
18 
  
Figure 6 . Percentile  rank distribution s of the seven categories of organisation al 
account s for social media capital , calculated relative to the full set of  10,119,331 
Twitter accounts in the dataset . Median values are shown above each distribution.  
 
Regarding tweeting activity, all seven organisation al categories achieve  relatively high 
levels  of originality rate , but the other three indicators reveal  more pronounced  
differences across  groups  (Figure 7). While  most categories post a similar number of 
tweets per year as the overall population of  Twitter user s, companies an d facilities 
exhibit comparatively lower levels of annual tweeting activity. However, facility 
accounts stand out by posting substantially more scholarly tweets  per year , ranking 
highest among all categories. This strong emphasis on scholarly content also gives 
facilit ies the highest scholarly focus rate. In contrast, government and archive accounts 
display relatively lower scholarly focus  rates, indicating that a greater  share of their 
Twitter activity concerns topics beyond scholarly publications.  These findings suggest 
that, although all organisation al types participate in scholarly communication  on Twitter, 
the degree of specialization and focus on scholarly content varies considerably by 
category.  The percentile rank patterns  are consistent  with the descriptive statistics 
across organisation al types (see Table A2 in Appendix A).  
 

---PAGE---
19 
  
Figure 7. Percentile  rank distribution s of the seven categories of organisation al 
accounts  for tweeting activity , calculated relative to the full set of 10,119,331 Twitter 
accounts in the dataset.  Median values are shown above each distribution.  
 
Different categories of organisation al accounts show  engagement patterns with  their 
scholarly tweets that broadly mirror  the overall trends  described above (Figure 8). In 
general, organisation al accounts achieve high visibility through  average likes and 
average retweets , with most categories ranking well above the median compared to 
other Twitter users  engaged in scholarly communication . However, they tend to 
generate lower levels of conversational engagement, such as average quotes  and 
average replies, suggesting a limited capacity to stimulate deeper interactions around 
scholarly content. Notable e xception s include  government, facility , and nonprofit  
accounts . These categories perform above the median not only in likes and retweets but 
also in  quotes  and replies , indicat ing that, unlike other  organisation al types , they are 
comparatively more successful in fostering both broad visibility and interactive 
discussion on Twitter.  The descriptive statistics in Table A2 (Appendix A ) further  
support th ese patterns , particularly highlighting the strong engagement performance of  
government organisation s, which show a distinct  advantage across all  four engagement 
metrics.  
 

---PAGE---
20 
  
Figure 8 . Percentile  rank distribution s of the seven categories of organisation al 
accounts  for engagement level , calculated relative to the full set of 10,119,331 Twitter 
accounts in the dataset . Median values are shown above each distribution.  
 
4. Discussion  
4.1. The presence and activity of organisation s in scholarly  communication  
Due to the heterogeneity of social media platforms , user  types, and motivations [7], it 
is widely recognized that characteriz ing users and their behaviors is essential for  
interpreting  interactions surrounding scholarly works and understanding the nature of 
attention paid to them [17]. Against this back drop, a substantial body of  research  has 
developed diverse methods to identify Twitter users engaged in scholarly 
communication,  leading to the creation of open datasets focused on  specific user groups , 
such as individual scholars [34], scholarly journals [38], and bots [48]. However , 
although previous work  has noted  that organisation al accounts constitute  a meaningful  
component of scholarly communication  on Twitter  [9, 27] , no dedicated dataset of 
organisation al accounts has been systematically developed. This gap has constrained  
more targeted empirical  research on how organisation s participate in and shape 
scholarly communication on social media . 
Drawing  on three organisation al databases and two altmetric data sources, this study 
provides  the first large -scale  identification of research - and policy -related organisation s 
involved  in Twitter communication of scholarly publications. Unlike  traditional 
altmet ric studies that primarily examine how often  scholarly works are mentioned on 

---PAGE---
21 
 social media as a quantitative proxy for  social attention or visibility, this study focuses 
on one key user communit y – organisation al account s – to characterize  their presence, 
activity, and engagement in scholarly communication on Twitter. This perspective helps 
deepen ou r understanding of the nature of social media attention to  scholarly works by 
foregrounding the types of actors who engage with it . Moreover, the resulting dataset 
of organisation al accounts  is openly available and  can support  future research  on the 
presence and behavior of organisation s not only in scholarly communication , but also 
in broader informational and public engagement contexts . 
Out of 111,280 global organisation s examined , we identified and validated 9,842  
accounts  (8.8%) that had tweeted about scholarly publications at least once , as recorded 
by Altmetric and C ED. This indicates a relatively low level  of organisation al 
participation in Twitter -based scholarly communication , even among  research - and 
policy -related organisation s. This finding aligns  with prior  studies report ing that Twitter  
discussions of  scholarly publications are largely  dominated by i ndividuals rather than 
organisation s [6, 11, 13, 14] . For example, Htoo and Na [4] found that individuals 
accounted for 83% of users tweeting about psychological publications and contributed 
77% of the scholarly tweets , compared to only 17% of organisation al users, who 
contributed 23%. Taken t ogether, these studies and o ur results  reinforce  the overall 
sparse presence of organisation s in Twitter discussions of scholarly work.  
By leveraging  our dataset of organisation al accounts alongside  the full population  of 
10,119,331 Twitter accounts engaged  in scholarly communication, we are able to assess  
the relative position of organisa tional actors  in the broader  dissemination of scholarly 
content  – an aspect that  has not  previously  been examined  at this scale. Despite the ir 
limited  presence , organisation al account s exhibit a stronger focus on scholarly 
publications than other  users, as reflected in their high er annual scholarly tweet  volume s 
and greater share of tweets referencing scholarly  outputs . This pattern is part ially 
attributable to  our sampling frame: research - and policy -related organisation s indexed 
in GRID, ROR, and Overton are more likely to use Twitter strategically to share, 
promote, or recommend research outputs [4]. The effect is particularly pronounced for 
research facilities,  which show high levels of scholarly tweeting , but less so  for 
government and archive accounts, which often  tweet about administrative  matters , 
events,  or general news beyond scholarly discourse  [43]. 
Organisation al accounts also demonstrate  substantial social media capital , attract ing 
significantly larger follower  bases than  other Twitter users , which enhances their  
---PAGE---
22 
 potential reach.  This observation  is consistent with earlier work  showing that 
organisation al accounts can reach audiences nearly three times larger than individual 
users  [56]. In our dataset , this advantage translates into high  visibility for scholarly 
tweets, as indicated by relatively high  levels  of likes  and retweets . However, when 
examining conversational engagement measured  through quotes and replies, most 
organisation al accounts perform less strongly , suggesting that they largely adopt a  
broadcast -oriented communication style rather than one that actively encourages  
dialogue . 
Several factors  may explain this pattern . First, it reflects  general  engagement dynamics 
on Twitter : higher -effort engagement  behaviors (e.g., quoting and replying) are 
substantially less common than  lower -effort ones (e.g., liking and retweeting)  [57]. 
Second, prior studies show  that individual users are more likely to engage critically 
with scholarly publications [4], which tends to generate more  conversation al interaction . 
Third, because organisation al accounts typically represent institutional voices , the  
individuals managing them may be constrained in how they interact publicly due to 
communication  polic ies and reputational considerations , limiting opportunities for 
dialogic engagement . 
However, exceptions do exist . Government, facility, and nonprofit accounts display  
higher levels of both visibility and conversational  engagement. These groups not only 
receive more likes and retweets but also more quotes and replies than other 
organisation al categories. While previous research has often  characterized government 
and nonprofit communication on  Twitter as predominantly one -way [58–61], our 
findings suggest  that, within the context of scholarly communication,  government  
account s in particular  are more successful in stimulating dialogue . This may be due to  
their large  follower bases , public authority status, and the heightened  motivation of 
audiences  to engage with scholarly  content disseminated by trusted or influential 
institutional actors . These results  highlight a potentially  important  role for government  
organisation s in facilitating public understanding and discussion of research . 
4.2. Implications of the research findings  
The findings of this study have several  implications for how organisation s use Twitter 
strategically and  for how altmetrics should interpret organisation al activity : 
First, this study  contributes an open dataset of organisation al accounts engaged in 
scholarly communication, which can support  future research investigati ng and 
---PAGE---
23 
 monitoring organisation al behaviors on Twitter . By linking organisation al databases 
with altmetric data, th e study also provides  a reusable methodological framework for 
identifying and categorizing organisation al accounts  in large -scale datasets. This 
framework can be extended to other emerging platforms (e.g., Bluesky and Mastodon) 
and adapted to different organisation al contexts, thereby enriching the methodological 
toolkit available to altmetric  research . 
Second , the findings show  that organisation s play an important role in scholarly 
communication  on Twitter, as evidenced by the enhanced visibility of their tweets about 
scholarly publications . This visibility  benefi ts from both their substantial  follower bases 
and their relatively  strong scholarly focus . Whereas t raditional altmetric s have 
primarily emphasized  publication -level or individual -level engagement, incorporating 
organisation al activity will broaden the scope of analysis and provide a m ore 
comprehensive understanding of how diverse actors shape scholarly communication . 
Third, given the growing  interest in assessing the societal impact of research, 
organisation s should be  more systematic ally conside red in research evaluation 
frameworks. Tweets by organisation al account s such as government agencies and 
certain  nonprofits (e.g., think tanks) may serve as indicators of how research evidence  
is referenced in policy and decision -making contexts , particularly  given the  high levels 
of visibility and engagement these accounts achieve in relation to  scholarly content in 
our study . As such , organisation al accounts may act as intermediaries between science , 
policy, public debate, and professional practice, offering valuable signals for funding 
agencies and policymakers in the design of impact assessment models.  
4.3. Limitations  and future work  
This study has several limitations that should be acknowledged : 
Frist, we focused specifically on research - and policy -related organisation s recorded in 
the GRID, ROR, and Overton databases . This scope  inevitably  exclu des other types of 
organisation s that may engage  in scholarly communication  on Twitter  but are not 
covered by these  registries . Moreover, the process of cross -walking across registries 
and matching them to Twitter profiles may introduce coverage and survivorship biases . 
Organisation s with incomplete metadata, inconsistent or ambiguous names, recent 
structural changes  (e.g., merger or renaming) , or inactive/abandoned web presences are 
less likely to be successfully identified. Future research could expand the organisation al 
sampling frame by integrating additional registries (e.g., national institutio nal 
---PAGE---
24 
 directories) and by applying alternative account discovery strategies (e.g., follower 
network expansion, supervised or semi -supervised user classification) to improve 
coverage  and reduce these biases . 
Second, our analysis centered on  organisation al acc ounts  that tweeted about scholarly 
publications, as recorded by Altmetric and CED. Although these are widely used 
altmetric data sources, they are not without limitations. Organisation s with Twitter 
accounts that never shared publication -linked tweets  were not included , which may lead 
to an underestimation of organisation al engagement  with research on social media . 
Furthermore, tweets that refer to research more implicitly (e.g., without linking to DOIs 
or URLs) are unlikely to  be captured. This underscores  the need for  more 
comprehensive social media dataset s that captur e broader forms of scholarly discourse . 
Future research could  therefore analyze a wider scope of organisation al accounts , 
including those  engaging with research in less direct ways . 
Third , although our study provides  large -scale quantitative  evidence  on organisation al 
tweeting patterns and engagement dynamics , we did not examine the content and 
rhetorical strategies used in organisation al tweets , such as  hashtag  practice s, mention  
network s, or framing styles . Qualitative and linguistic analyses  of tweet text and 
interaction structures  would provide deeper insight into why some organisation  types 
are more successful in generat ing conversational engagement, such as government, 
nonprofit, and facility accounts. Future work could build on the open dataset released 
in this study to conduct such fine -grained textual and interactional analyses.  
Lastly, recent policy changes to Twitte r following  its rebrand ing as X  – such as the 
introduction of a paid API and reduced content moderation  – have prompted many  
academic users to migrat e to alternative platforms like Bluesky and Mastodon  [62]. 
Nevertheless,  according to survey s by Altmetric, Twitter continues to host substantial  
discussions of research outputs [63, 64] , which justifies the present study’s focus . 
Moving forward , however,  future research should increasingly examine  newer 
platforms such as Bluesky and Mastodon to assess how organisation s adapt  their 
communication strategies in these emerging environments  and whether the patterns 
identified here persist or change . 
 
5. Conclusions  
This study presents a large -scale identificat ion and analysis of research - and policy -
---PAGE---
25 
 related organisation s engaged in scholarly communication  on Twitter. By integrating 
organisation al registries  (GRID, ROR, and Overton) with altmetric data sources 
(Altmetric and CED), we constructed an open ly available  dataset of 9,842 
organisation al accounts that had tweeted about scholarly publications.  
Our findings reveal that the se accounts demonstrate  a strong focus on scholarly outputs , 
especially in the case of research facilities, and possess  substantia l social media capital , 
as reflected in their relatively large follower bases. This advantage enables 
organisation al accounts to achieve high visibility  for their scholarly tweets, as indicated 
by elevated levels of  likes  and retweets . However , most organisation al accounts are less 
effective in generating conversational engagement, with comparatively  low levels of 
quotes and replies. Notable exceptions in clude  government  organisation s, which exhibit  
a greater capacity to  promot e both  visibility and interactive discussion , suggesting their 
potential role in facilitating public engagement with research . 
Beyond these empirical insights, t he study contributes both an open dataset and a 
methodological framework that can support future investigations into the role of  
organisation s in online scholarly communication . More broadly, t he results underscore 
the importance of incorporating organisation al activity into al tmetric research, thereby 
expanding the analytical lens beyond publications and individuals to better capture how 
scholarly discourse is shaped by diverse institutional actors . 
 
Acknowledgments  
The a uthors thank Altmetric, Crossref Event Data, and Overton for providing the data 
for research purposes , and the anonymous reviewers for their valuable suggestions.  
 
Statements and Declarations  
Not applicable  
 
Declaration of conflicting interest  
The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article . 
 
---PAGE---
26 
 Funding statement  
The author(s) disclosed receipt of the following financial support for the research, 
authorship and/or pu blication of this article:  This study was funded by the National 
Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 72304274). Er-Te Zheng was financially 
supported by the GTA scholarship from the School of Information, Journalism and 
Communication of the University  of Sheffield.  
 
References  
[1]  Sugimoto CR, Work S, Larivière V , et al. Scholarly use of social media and altmetrics: A 
review of the literature. J Assoc Inf Sci Technol  2017; 68: 2037 –2062.  
[2]  Haustein S , Bowman TD, Costas R. Interpreting ‘altmetrics’: Viewing acts on social media 
through the lens of citation and social theories. In: Sugimoto CR (ed) Theories of 
informetrics and scholarly communication . Berlin: De Gruyter, 2016, pp. 372 –405. 
[3]  Diaz -Faes AA, Zahedi Z. Rethinking altmetrics as process -based indicators: A conceptual 
framework for construct clarity, https://zenodo.org/records/15236829 (2025, accessed 16 
September 2025).  
[4]  Htoo T, Na J -C. Who are tweeting research articles and why? J Inf Sci Theory Pract  2017; 
5: 48 –60. 
[5]  Mohammadi E, Barahmand N, Thelwall M. Who shares health and medical scholarly articles 
on Facebook? Learn Publ  2020; 33: 111 –118. 
[6]  Yu H, Xiao T, Xu S, et al. Who posts scientific tweets? An investigation into the p roductivity, 
locations, and identities of scientific tweeters. J Informetr  2019; 13: 841 –855. 
[7]  Haustein S. Grand challenges in altmetrics: Heterogeneity, data quality and dependencies. 
Scientometrics  2016; 108: 413 –423. 
[8]  Bex RT, Lundgren L, Crippen  KJ. Scientific Twitter: The flow of paleontological 
communication across a topic network. PLOS ONE  2019; 14: e0219688.  
[9]  Didegah F, Mejlgaard N, Sørensen MP. Investigating the quality of interactions and public 
engagement around scientific papers on Tw itter. J Informetr  2018; 12: 960 –971. 
[10]  Moukarzel S, Rehm M, Fresno M del, et al. Diffusing science through social networks: The 
case of breastfeeding communication on Twitter. PLOS ONE  2020; 15: e0237471.  
[11]  Tsou A, Bowman T, Ghazinejad A, et al. W ho tweets about science? In: Proceedings of the 
2015 International Society for Scientometrics and Informetrics . Istanbul, Turkey, pp. 95 –
100. 
---PAGE---
27 
 [12]  Vainio J, Holmberg K. Highly tweeted science articles: who tweets them? An analysis of 
Twitter user profile descriptions. Scientometrics  2017; 112: 345 –366. 
[13]  Xu S, Yu H, Hemminger BM, et al. Who, what, why? An exploration of JoVE scientific 
video publications in tweets. Scientometrics  2018; 117: 845 –856. 
[14]  Toupin R, Millerand F, Larivière V . Who tweets climate change papers? Investigating publics 
of research through users’ descriptions. PLOS ONE  2022; 17: e0268999.  
[15]  Hou J, Wang Y , Zhang Y , et al. How do scholars and non -scholars participate in dataset 
dissemination on Twitter. J Informetr  2022; 16: 101223.  
[16]  Araujo RF. Communities of attention networks: Introducing qualitative and conversational 
perspectives for altmetrics. Scientometrics  2020; 124: 1793 –1809.  
[17]  Díaz -Faes AA, Bowman TD, Costas R. Towards a second generation of ‘social media 
metrics’: Characterizing Twitter communities of attention around science. PLOS ONE  2019; 
14: e0216408.  
[18]  Zhang L, Gou Z, Fang Z, et al. Who tweets scientific publications? A large -scale study of 
tweeting audiences in all areas of research. J Assoc Inf S ci Technol  2023; 74: 1485 –1497.  
[19]  Carlson J, Harris K. Quantifying and contextualizing the impact of bioRxiv preprints through 
automated social media audience segmentation. PLOS Biol  2020; 18: e3000860.  
[20]  Altmetric. How does altmetric track X, 
https://help.altmetric.com/support/solutions/articles/6000235926 -x-formerly -twitter - (2024, 
accessed 3 September 2025).  
[21]  Yu H. Context of altmetrics data matters: An investigation of count type and user category. 
Scientometrics  2017; 111: 267 –283. 
[22]  Alperin JP, Gomez CJ, Haustein S. Identifying diffusion patterns of research articles on 
Twitter: A case study of online engagement with open access articles. Public Underst Sci  
2019; 28: 2 –18. 
[23]  Arroyo -Machado W, Torres -Salinas D, Robinson -Garcia N. Id entifying and characterizing 
social media communities: A socio -semantic network approach to altmetrics. Scientometrics  
2021; 126: 9267 –9289.  
[24]  Holmberg K, Bowman TD, Haustein S, et al. Astrophysicists’ conversational connections on 
Twitter. PLOS ONE  2014; 9: e106086.  
[25]  Pearce W, Holmberg K, Hellsten I, et al. Climate Change on Twitter: Topics, Communities 
and Conversations about the 2013 IPCC Working Group 1 Report. PLOS ONE  2014; 9: 
e94785.  
---PAGE---
28 
 [26]  Robinson -Garcia N, Arroyo -Machado W, Torres -Salinas D. Mapping social medi a attention 
in Microbiology: Identifying main topics and actors. FEMS Microbiol Lett  2019; 366: 
fnz075.  
[27]  Said A, Bowman TD, Abbasi RA, et al. Mining network -level properties of Twitter 
altmetrics data. Scientometrics  2019; 120: 217 –235. 
[28]  Van Scha lkwyk F, Dudek J, Costas R. Communities of shared interests and cognitive bridges: 
The case of the anti -vaccination movement on Twitter. Scientometrics  2020; 125: 1499 –1516.  
[29]  Mohammadi E, Thelwall M, Kwasny M, et al. Academic information on Twitter: A  user 
survey. PLOS ONE  2018; 13: e0197265.  
[30]  Na J-C, Ye YE. Content analysis of scholarly discussions of psychological academic articles 
on Facebook. Online Inf Rev  2017; 41: 337 –353. 
[31]  Shema H, Bar -Ilan J, Thelwall M. How is research blogged? A co ntent analysis approach. J 
Assoc Inf Sci Technol  2015; 66: 1136 –1149.  
[32]  Mas-Bleda A, Thelwall M, Kousha K, et al. Do highly cited researchers successfully use the 
social web? Scientometrics  2014; 101: 337 –356. 
[33]  Costas R, Mongeon P, Ferreira MR, et  al. Large -scale identification and characterization of 
scholars on Twitter. Quant Sci Stud  2020; 1: 771 –791. 
[34]  Mongeon P, Bowman TD, Costas R. An open data set of scholars on Twitter. Quant Sci Stud  
2023; 4: 314 –324. 
[35]  Côté IM, Darling ES. Scienti sts on Twitter: Preaching to the choir or singing from the 
rooftops? F ACETS  2018; 3: 682 –694. 
[36]  Ke Q, Ahn Y -Y , Sugimoto CR. A systematic identification and analysis of scientists on 
Twitter. PLOS ONE  2017; 12: e0175368.  
[37]  Zheng H, Aung HH, Erdt M, et al. Social media presence of scholarly journals. J Assoc Inf 
Sci Technol  2019; 70: 256 –270. 
[38]  Nishikawa -Pacher A. The Twitter accounts of scientific journals: A dataset. Insights  2023; 
36: 1.  
[39]  Cong T, Zheng E -T, Han Z, et al. Social media uptak e of scientific journals: A comparison 
between X and WeChat. J Inf Sci , 
https://journals.sagepub.com/eprint/TA6AZAWFHE8BHDVGNDGI/full (2025, accessed 7 
September 2025).  
[40]  Greenwood G. Examining the presence of social media on university web sites. J Coll 
Admiss  2012; 216: 24 –28. 
---PAGE---
29 
 [41]  Prabhu V , Rosenkrantz AB. Enriched audience engagement through Twitter: Should more 
academic radiology departments seize the opportunity? J Am Coll Radiol  2015; 12: 756 –759. 
[42]  Stuart E, Stuart D, Thelwall M. An investigation of the online presence of UK universities 
on Instagram. Online Inf Rev  2017; 41: 582 –597. 
[43]  Chu SK -W, Du HS. Social networking tools for academic libraries. J Libra riansh Inf Sci  
2013; 45: 64 –75. 
[44]  Hussain A. Adoption of web 2.0 in library associations in the presence of social media. 
Program Electron Libr Inf Syst  2015; 49: 151 –169. 
[45]  Wang Y , Zuccala A. Scholarly book publishers as publicity agents for SSH t itles on Twitter. 
Scientometrics  2021; 126: 4817 –4840.  
[46]  Ravaonorohanta N, Sayumwe M. Social media presence and organisation al performance: 
An empirical study on companies’ presence on Twitter. Contemp Manag Res  2020; 16: 123 –
144. 
[47]  Haustein S. Sch olarly Twitter Metrics. In: Glänzel W, Moed HF, Schmoch U, et al. (eds) 
Springer Handbook of Science and Technology Indicators . Cham: Springer International 
Publishing, pp. 729 –760. 
[48]  Arroyo -Machado W, Herrera -Viedma E, Torres -Salinas D. The botization  of science? Large -
scale study of the presence and impact of Twitter bots in science dissemination. J Assoc Inf 
Sci Technol  2025; 76: 1105 –1122.  
[49]  Haustein S, Bowman TD, Holmberg K, et al. Tweets as impact indicators: Examining the 
implications of auto mated “bot” accounts on Twitter. J Assoc Inf Sci Technol  2016; 67: 232 –
238. 
[50]  Rahman A, Mohammadi E, Alhoori H. Public interest in science or bots? Selective 
amplification of scientific articles on Twitter. Aslib J Inf Manag ; ahead -of-print. Epub ahead  
of print 26 September 2024. DOI: 10.1108/AJIM -01-2024 -0050.  
[51]  Shuai X, Pepe A, Bollen J. How the scientific community reacts to newly submitted preprints: 
Article downloads, Twitter mentions, and citations. PLOS ONE  2012; 7: e47523.  
[52]  Ye YE, Na J -C. Profiling bot accounts mentioning COVID -19 publications on Twitter. In: 
Ishita E, Pang NLS, Zhou L (eds) Digital Libraries at Times of Massive Societal Transition . 
Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2020, pp. 297 –306. 
[53]  Szomszor M, Adie E. Ove rton: A bibliometric database of policy document citations. Quant 
Sci Stud  2022; 3: 624 –650. 
[54]  Fang Z, Dudek J, Costas R. The stability of Twitter metrics: A study on unavailable Twitter 
mentions of scientific publications. J Assoc Inf Sci Technol  2020; 71: 1455 –1469.  
---PAGE---
30 
 [55]  Park H, Rodgers S, Stemmle J. Analyzing health organisation s’ use of Twitter  for promoting 
health literacy. J Health Commun  2013; 18: 410 –425. 
[56]  McCorriston J, Jurgens D, Ruths D. Orga nisation s are users too: Characterizing and 
detecting the presence of organisation s on Twitter. Proc Int AAAI Conf Web Soc Media  2015; 
9: 650 –653. 
[57]  Fang Z, Costas R, Wouters P. User engagement with scholarly tweets of scientific papers: a 
large -scale and cross -disciplinary analysis. Scientometrics  2022; 127: 4523 –4546.  
[58]  Waters RD, Williams JM. Squawking, tweeting, cooing, and hooting: An alyzing the 
communication patterns of government agencies on twitter. J Public Aff  2011; 11: 353 –363. 
[59]  Waters RD, Jamal JY . Tweet, tweet, tweet: A content analysis of nonprofit organisation s’ 
Twitter updates. Public Relat Rev  2011; 37: 321 –324. 
[60]  Lovejoy K, Waters RD, Saxton GD. Engaging stakeholders through Twitter: How nonprofit 
organisation s are getting more out of 140 characters or less. Public Relat Rev  2012; 38: 313 –
318. 
[61]  Gálvez -Rodríguez M del M, Caba -Pérez C, López -Godoy M. Drivers of Twitter as a 
strategic communication tool for non -profit organisation s. Internet Res  2016; 26: 1052 –1071.  
[62]  Kupferschmidt K. Researchers and scientific institutions flock to Bluesky. Science  2024; 
386: 950 –951. 
[63]  Kidambi M. Tapping into data from B luesky. Altmetric , 
https://www.altmetric.com/blog/tapping -into-data-from -bluesky/ (2024, accessed 5 June 
2025).  
[64]  Taylor M, Areia C. Bluesky’s ahead, but is X a dead parrot?, 
https://www.altmetric.com/blog/blueskys -ahead -but-is-x-a-dead -parrot/ (2025, accessed 10 
September 2025).  
 
  
---PAGE---
