Modeling Changing Scientific Concepts with Complex Networks: A Case
Study on the Chemical Revolution
Sofía Aguilar-Valdez and Stefania Degaetano-Ortlieb
Language Science and Technology Department, Saarland University
sofia.aguilar@uni-saarland.de, s.degaetano@mx.uni-saarland.de
Abstract
While context embeddings produced by LLMs
can be used to estimate conceptual change,
these representations are often not interpretable
nor time-aware. Moreover, bias augmentation
in historical data poses a non-trivial risk to re-
searchers in the Digital Humanities. Hence, to
model reliable concept trajectories in evolv-
ing scholarship, in this work we develop a
framework that represents prototypical con-
cepts through complex networks based on top-
ics. Utilizing the Royal Society Corpus, we an-
alyzed two competing theories from the Chem-
ical Revolution (phlogiston vs. oxygen) as a
case study to show that onomasiological change
is linked to higher entropy and topological den-
sity, indicating increased diversity of ideas and
connectivity effort.
1
Introduction
Language change is not random; it is driven by
shifting communicative goals, social structures,
and domain-specific conventions (Hamilton et al.,
2016b; Gries and Hilpert, 2008; Blank, 2013).
While various methods exist to model change in lan-
guage use, such as lexical semantic change through
word meaning representations from LLMs, inter-
pretability remains a difficult task (Periti and Mon-
tanelli, 2024). This impedes domain experts’ abil-
ity to qualitatively assess change and adapt models
to their specific needs (Beck, 2024).
We model conceptual change through language
use in the context of scientific revolutions, where
shifts in language use reflect broader epistemic tran-
sitions. Specifically, we want to analyze how the
lexemes referring to a concept evolve after discov-
eries (Zgusta, 2011), which poses the challenges
of quantifying concepts with adaptable structures
and predicting what conceptual evolution mecha-
nisms are associated with epistemic drifts. To this
end, we propose a graph-based approach that mod-
els scientific texts as concept networks, organizing
Figure 1: Diachronic prototypical concepts. This
schematic illustrates movements in central and periph-
eral readings (arrows), and the presence of notable terms
(ovals). Over time, air went from the core to the pe-
riphery while acid did the opposite, and this was ac-
companied by the removal of calx, phlogiston, and the
emergence of oxygen.
a concept’s lexemes or readings from core to pe-
riphery, and evaluates the recombination of these
readings into new core concepts for onomasiologi-
cal1 assessment.
As a case study, we analyze two competing
explanations for combustion during the Chemi-
cal Revolution: phlogiston theory (e.g., “a lighter
burns because it contains phlogiston”) and oxy-
gen theory (e.g., “a lighter burns because some
substances ignite when in contact with oxygen”).
Considering these theories as prototypical concepts
(see Figure 1) with central and peripheral read-
ings (Geeraerts, 1997), the overarching research
question of this work is concerned with modeling
onomasiological change in scientific discourse with
temporal graphs. Our central question is whether
the network structure reflects the spread and com-
petition of readings in changing scientific concepts.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows.
1Onomasiological change refers to shifts in the linguis-
tic expressions used to denote the same underlying concept.
Instead of tracking how a word’s meaning evolves (a sema-
siological perspective), the onomasiological approach fixes
a concept and studies competition, replacement, or special-
ization among its lexical realizations over time (cf. Geeraerts
(2009))
arXiv:2603.17594v1  [physics.soc-ph]  18 Mar 2026
Section 2 motivates the study of concepts, espe-
cially scientific ones, and explains how prototype
semantics serves as the theoretical framework for
representing concepts as networks. Section 3 re-
views related work on modeling concept formation
using networks and introduces our task of detecting
conceptual structure shifts. Section 4 describes the
corpus and experiments, and Section 5 reports the
results and their interpretation. Finally, Section 6
concludes and provides future research directions.
2
Background
This section begins by explaining why modeling
concepts is important, especially in the scientific
domain, and presents the linguistic theory from
which we approach concepts as graphs. It ends
with a brief historical background on the Chemical
Revolution.
2.1
Concepts and Networks
Why Concepts Matter
Concepts are mental
tools designed to manage the (im)balance between
expectation and experience (Koselleck, 2006). For
instance, the concept of nature today is approached
as an object rather than subject, which presents in-
terpretations that diverge from those of previous
societies. Since concepts are indicators of histori-
cal change, tracing their shifts is key to reconstruct
how past societies understood and structured their
world.
Why Scientific Concepts
Unlike everyday con-
cepts (e.g., chair), scientific concepts (e.g., DNA)
cannot be formed by the subject through imme-
diate experience of the object. They are learned
through the academic establishment and lose mean-
ing if isolated from this universal system of related
ideas since they rely on neither moral judgments,
gut feelings nor authority. This is how Vygotsky
(1994) explains why scientific concepts are "true
concepts" (viz., truly learned, nonspontaneous con-
cepts). Since they are not impacted by cultural
ambiguity, as study objects they enable "universal
sensors" for historical change.
Why Complex Networks
According to proto-
type semantics, concepts have readings or inter-
pretations located at different levels; going from
the center to the periphery, where the centroids are
considered to be the most typical (Geeraerts, 1997).
To illustrate this, consider how the concept of fruit
generates a typical reading that varies depending
on the cultural perspective. This structure is akin
to a graph’s, and the literature supports that rep-
resenting them as such offers means to model the
meaning dynamics as well as social interactions
that lead to concept formation (Kaye et al., 2024;
Kedrick et al., 2024; Ju et al., 2020).
2.2
Chemical Revolution Overview
When science undergoes dramatic ontological
changes (i.e., the whole system of concepts and
their laws is replaced by a new one), by analogy
with political uprisings, such processes are called
scientific revolutions (Kuhn, 2012). The textbook
example of this occurred in the 18th century, when
competing sides disagreed sharply about what
counted as an element and what was a compound, a
foundational difference many chemists of the time
had (Chang, 2015). Notably, Lavoisier’s oxygen
paradigm overtook the dominant one in chemistry
for combustion, Stahl’s phlogiston paradigm; while
phlogistonists regarded metals as calx compounds
(i.e., today known as oxides) plus phlogiston, oxy-
genists classified calxes as compounds of pure met-
als plus oxygen (i.e., today known as element),
which cleared out research questions at the time
related to not only combustion but calcination and
respiration (Thagard, 1990), producing the ground
work for many additional transformations in chem-
istry (Holmes, 1994). Arguably, phlogistonists’
contributions were hindered by interpreting phe-
nomena using phlogiston as a principle or "central
reading", an ontological category that disappeared
as Lavoisier’s system developed (Chang, 2015).
Hence, this scientific scenario is optimal as a
case study to model how concepts are changed, new
ones arise, and old ones disappear. In particular, we
focus on the decades where the new concept of oxy-
gen became established while phlogiston vanished:
from the 1750s to 1800s (Chang, 2011; Thagard,
1990). This scenario, however, only serves as a first
step towards a generalizable approach to model
conceptual transitions and the meaning dynamics
involved in these changes.
3
Related Work
This section introduces the state-of-the-art meth-
ods for the NLP task most related to our problem
(i.e., lexical-semantic change detection), the cur-
rent challenge of improving interpretability, and
how we approach it in this work as a conceptual
structure shift detection task.
3.1
NLP Research Overview
The evolution of word meanings, often termed se-
mantic change, has long been a central focus of
linguistic inquiry. This process is crucial for under-
standing how language adapts to shifting cultural
and communicative contexts. Advances in com-
putational methods have provided novel tools to
study semantic change at scale. Tahmasebi et al.
(2021) and Periti and Montanelli (2024) offer com-
prehensive surveys on these methods, with a focus
on diachronic word embeddings and neural meth-
ods. Diachronic embeddings capture the shifting
meanings of words across time by mapping their
usage in successive temporal intervals (Hamilton
et al., 2016b; Dubossarsky et al., 2017). While
such approaches effectively track semantic drift,
they often fall short in allowing to understand the
underlying mechanisms driving these changes.
Modeling evolving scholarship considering con-
cept networks offers an alternative, more informa-
tive perspective. By building semantic graphs that
organize a concept’s core and peripheral readings,
Kedrick et al. (2024) found conceptual structures
with rigid cores hinder scientific innovation. They
explain this using the network structure: the recom-
bination of cores with fellow cores and peripheral
entities is less likely to occur in disciplines where
core concepts are more stable. Such framing is
compatible with prototype semantics, which de-
scribes words as radial structures (e.g., word fruit
with apple and guava as central and peripheral read-
ings, respectively) where depending on the situa-
tional context some readings are more "central" or
"typical" than others, boundaries are not rigid, and
different concepts can overlap (Geeraerts, 1997).
Networks are thus informative in the sense that
they can represent the meaning dynamics taking
place alongside the social interactions driving them.
By constructing community networks based on a
topic model, Malaterre and Lareau (2023) showed
the evolution of communities and their main re-
search themes, tracing the development of the spe-
cialization areas that structure the field of philos-
ophy of science today. Topic models are known
for approaching documents as mixtures of abstract
themes, where each theme is represented by a prob-
ability distribution over words (Blei et al., 2003).
Document-topic distributions thus offer insight into
how specific themes are distributed across time,
and to our knowledge this approach was first im-
plemented by Griffiths and Steyvers (2004) to find
scientific disciplines and evaluate collaborations
between researchers.
3.2
Towards a Conceptual Structure Shift
Detection Task
We approach concepts as prototypical structures
whose meaning evolves through their relational em-
bedding in domain-specific discourse. The concep-
tual structure shift detection task therefore frames
conceptual change as a network-level phenomenon
rather than a purely lexical one.
• Input: A diachronic scientific corpus (e.g.,
spanning multiple decades of publications
from one or more research domains).
• Output: Concept networks for each time slice
that capture core–periphery organization and
their diachronic trajectories.
In the context of scientific revolutions, these tra-
jectories should reflect conceptual structure shifts
that we define as periods where the prototypical
core of a concept either reconfigures or expands to-
wards new peripheries, resulting in multiple mean-
ing shift cases, namely
• the lexemes referring to the core diversify (i.e.,
onomasiological change),
• new overall senses for the core emerge (i.e.,
semasiological change),
• and/or a new ontological system replaces the
previous one (i.e., ontological change).
None of these changes are exclusive and arguably
happen in sequence (e.g., during the Chemical Rev-
olution, onomasiological/semasiological changes
led to the ontological one). Moreover, to explain
these cases systems are expected to produce both
static models per period and dynamic mappings
across periods, prioritizing interpretability in
structural metrics.
Hence, to alleviate interpretability concerns we
estimate concepts as themes with a ranked vocab-
ulary using topic modeling, then cluster the doc-
uments based on similarity. Doing so produces
graphs with topic clusters that represent the con-
cepts present in a decade, and how these concepts
were structured in terms of core and peripheral
words.
Regarding evaluation, this baseline adopts two
established metrics from information theory to mea-
sure change:
• Jensen-Shannon distance, to quantify the
difference across topic clusters by treating
graphs as diachronic, referent-independent en-
tities (i.e., a perspective looking from the fu-
ture into the past and vice versa have a dis-
tance that is symmetrical).
• Entropy, to describe the magnitude of the
change understood as "topic diversity" accord-
ing to Hall et al. (2008).
In summary, we approach concepts as prototyp-
ical structures and define our task as conceptual
structure shift detection: the input is a diachronic
scientific corpus, and the expected output are con-
cept networks that offer core and peripheral read-
ings trajectories to inform the onomasiological
change assessment, which is the case we decided
to focus on for this work.
4
Material and Methods
Based on the Royal Society Corpus (RSC; Ker-
mes et al. 2016; Fischer et al. 2020), this approach
consisted of four stages: first, create a representa-
tive corpus by filtering publications given specified
decades and oxygen terminology (Chang, 2011;
Bizzoni et al., 2021). Second, represent concepts
and their diachronic readings using topic modeling
(Blei et al., 2003; Sievert and Shirley, 2014). Third,
form concept networks by linking documents based
on the Jensen-Shannon distance (Shannon, 1948)
among topics and optimize connectivity by mini-
mizing the percolation threshold (Radicchi, 2015);
this is the tipping point where isolated nodes in a
graph abruptly form the largest mutually reachable
subgraph, with a low threshold indicating exten-
sive connectivity using minimal resources. Finally,
we reveal hidden groups by applying clustering
(Lukasová, 1979) and community detection (Blon-
del et al., 2008) algorithms.
Dataset Description
The RSC is a diachronic
corpus of English scientific writing covering 47,837
publications and their metadata (e.g., publication
year, author) in the Philosophical Transactions and
Proceedings of the Royal Society of London from
1665 to 1996 (Fischer et al., 2020). We focus on
6 decades (1750-1800) to account for the events
where oxygen developed as a concept; from 1774,
when Joseph Priestley conformed to the theories
of the time and introduced the gas as "dephlogisti-
cated air" (Brown, 1997), till 1789, when Lavoisier
presented the gas with a new term and led to the
widespread adoption of "oxygen" among chemists
(Thagard, 1990). Doing so is supported by previous
studies based on the RSC that in the same period
report documents and lexico-grammatical changes
addressing combustion, gases and chemical reac-
tions, key themes in the phlogiston-to-oxygen con-
ceptual transition (Degaetano-Ortlieb and Teich,
2019; Bizzoni et al., 2020; Teich et al., 2021).
4.1
Data Processing and Sampling
We retrieved texts from the RSC with a publication
date between 1750–1800, defined decade batches
to make our results comparable with previous stud-
ies on this corpus (Teich et al., 2021), then filtered
documents to include instances of terms relevant to
the discovery of oxygen. These terms were derived
from Bizzoni et al. (2021), which used Kullback-
Leibler Divergence (KLD) to identify distinctive
terms during the Chemical Revolution; and Chang
(2011), who explains why the term oxygen per-
sisted despite theoretical revisions, arguing that its
operational meaning remained stable while phlo-
giston theory lost operational grounding. Chang
(2011) also notes that the theoretical meaning of
phlogiston was conceptually close to later notions
of energy, and describes phlogiston as a precursor
to ideas such as free electrons.
After filtering the documents (N = 2337), we
performed two cleaning rounds.
First, we re-
moved special characters and terms shorter than
two characters, converted the text to lowercase,
and removed stopwords based on the standard list
imported as “ENGLISH_STOP_WORDS” using scikit-
learn (Buitinck et al., 2013); doing so substantially
decreased the corpus size by removing prepositions,
pronouns and articles (e.g., "a", "he" and "the")
while retaining nouns, which according to Hamil-
ton et al. (2016a) are more sensitive to linguistic
changes. Regarding hyphenated terms, these were
unchanged to preserve their semantic unity dur-
ing topic modeling. Second, we filtered for nouns
and adjectives, and lemmatized the corpus using
tmtoolkit2.
To test the influence of prior textual data on
downstream analyses, for the six decades we im-
plemented two sampling strategies: 1) cumulative
sampling, where each decade includes the indicated
decade and all previous decades’ documents, and
2) non-cumulative sampling, where each decade
includes only documents from that period.
2https://tmtoolkit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
Figure 2: Topic models evaluation. These results, produced by evaluating models for the 1800s non-cumulative
corpus, were consistent across decades and strategies. Since both metrics degrade beyond 6 topics (↑perplexity,
↓coherence), the optimal number is 6.
4.2
Topic Modeling
In the context of the RSC, topic modeling has
previously been used to estimate scientific disci-
plines (Fankhauser et al., 2016). The authors em-
ployed Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA), a prob-
abilistic model designed to uncover abstract cate-
gories given a collection of documents (Blei et al.,
2003), and found 30 distinct disciplines and sub-
disciplines to describe the publications.
Our topic modeling workflow consisted of con-
structing a document-term matrix from the prepro-
cessed corpus, counting the occurrences of each
lemmatized term per document.
We evaluated
model performance using log-likelihood (Bengio
et al., 2003) and topic coherence (Mimno et al.,
2011); doing so mitigates the often manual and ar-
bitrary parameter selection in LDA (Schmidt, 2012;
Mohr and Bogdanov, 2013). Following best prac-
tices in interpretability, we generated topic labels
using LDAvis (Sievert and Shirley, 2014), which
are determined based on relevance scores that are
more meaningful compared to word rankings (i.e.,
if air is the top-5 word yet its relevance score is
higher compared to other terms, this will be the
topic label). This is how we defined the optimal
number of topics and the topic labels (i.e., the term
that "names" the topic) across decades and strate-
gies.
4.3
Network Construction
We considered documents as nodes and formed
edges based on the Jensen-Shannon distance (Shan-
non, 1948) between document-topic distributions;
given distributions p and q, distance d is given by:
d =
s
D(p ∥m) + D(q ∥m)
2
where m is the pointwise mean of p and q and D is
the KLD. This way we formed adjacency matrices,
later binarized by optimizing connectivity based
on the percolation threshold (Radicchi, 2015). A
threshold was necessary to reduce the network’s
complexity by limiting the number of nodes and
edges to only the most meaningful ones.
Hence, the conceptual structure was defined as
follows: topic labels (Sievert and Shirley, 2014)
"name" the concepts, while the topic-word distri-
butions establish the central (i.e., top-10) and pe-
ripheral (i.e., top-50) terms.
4.4
Topic Aggregation
To find hidden groups, first we applied Hierarchical
Agglomerative Clustering (HAC; Lukasová, 1979),
a method that consists of measuring the distance be-
tween data points iteratively until forming groups
with data points that exhibit higher similarity to one
another compared to points in other groups. Each
data point starts as its own cluster and merges with
others until a number of groups is reached (i.e., 6
according to the optimal number of topics). For
visualization purposes, we used cosine similarity
as the metric for both HAC and UMAP (McInnes
et al., 2018) dimensionality reduction approaches
due of its reported performance in topic-based net-
works (Luhmann and Burghardt, 2022).
Similarly, the Louvain algorithm (Blondel et al.,
2008) estimates groups by maximizing modularity,
a metric that measures the quality of a network’s
division into distinct groups or communities, quan-
tifying the density of intra- vs. inter-cluster con-
nections. We used it as a complementary method
to further analyze network dynamics among the
topics (Malaterre and Lareau, 2023).
5
Results and Discussion
This section describes our findings regarding the
phlogiston-to-oxygen conceptual transition: a topic
cluster indicates onomasiological change given its
Figure 3: Topic clusters. By comparing both relevant decades (1st row=1780s, 2nd row=1800s) across sam-
pling strategies (1st column=cumulative, 2nd column=non-cumulative), we observe the cumulative sampling
shows topic clusters with stable labels over time, contrary to the non-cumulative that provides more fine-grained
representations.
recombination of core and peripheral readings (viz.,
air becomes acid with oxygen as a peripheral term
in the non-cumulative strategy), alongside higher
entropy, and network metrics capture this shift in
terms of rising connectivity effort. We then com-
pare these concept structure dynamics with those
reported in qualitative analyses of the Chemical
Revolution.
5.1
Topic Clusters
We found that a model of 6 topics seems adequate
as it achieved low perplexity and high coherence
across all decades (Figure 2).
Figure 3 shows onomasiological change, where
we consider topic clusters as prototype concepts
with central (i.e, top-10) and peripheral (i.e., top-
50) readings. Notably, with non-cumulative sam-
pling (i.e., no past documents included; 2nd col-
umn) in the 1780s corpus (upper graph) at the core
is the term air taking acid as a central reading. This
relationship flips by the 1800s (lower graph), when
acid becomes typical with oxygen acting as a pe-
ripheral reading (upper right corner of the word
cloud). In contrast, cumulative sampling shows
topic clusters with recurring labels (e.g., plant, air).
The observations from non-cumulative sampling
are consistent with the conceptual structure re-
ported in the literature that argues acid played a piv-
otal role for the conceptual change (Thagard, 1990;
Chang, 2011): while phlogistonists like Priestley
underplayed acidity as a secondary effect of phlo-
giston release (e.g., experiments burning sulfur pro-
duced a "gaseous calx" that was perceived as acidic
since it lacked phlogiston), Lavoisier considered
acidity as a core explanatory principle to reframe
calxes as oxides and oxygen as an enabler of acid
formation (e.g., sulfur is a combustible that when in
contact with oxygen forms sulfur dioxide, which in
turn dissolves in water to produce sulfurous acid).
This is explicit in the results, where calx and phlo-
giston disappear from the periphery in the concept
structure after acid takes over the core (cf. notable
terms in Figure 1).
To compare the magnitude of diachronic change
in both sampling strategies, we measured the top-
ics "diversity of ideas" using entropy (Hall et al.,
2008). Figure 4 presents different trends: while the
cumulative strategy shows rising entropy across
oxygen-related topics (illustrated by different col-
ors), the non-cumulative declines then rises post-
1774 oxygen discovery. This decline of diversity
pre-1780 could be interpreted as the resistance of
phlogistonists to de-center air in their findings (e.g.,
Priestley’s "dephlogisticated air"), while the rise of
diversity post-1780 could be attributed to Lavoisier
coining the term oxygen. These observations sup-
port Thagard (1990)’s on why Lavoisier made the
conceptual shift instead of Priestley. However, to
clarify this, future studies will have to incorporate
Lavoisier’s articles in French, which are absent
from our corpus.
5.2
Temporal Graphs
Considering the onomasiological change (Figure
3) and rising entropy (Figure 4), we built graphs
based on the non-cumulative strategy; one for each
decade, producing 6 in total (Figure A1).
To analyze network stability, we considered 5
parameters (Figure A2) from which follow three
findings: first, although node size starts and ends
similarly (400–500), edge density more than dou-
bled (30 037–62 639).
Second, declining net-
work communities suggests integration (5–3), but
falling modularity (0,39–0,19) disputes this: fewer,
lower-quality communities indicate increased mix-
ing. Lastly, percolation threshold rises in 1760s
(0,3–0,54), falls in 1770s (0,54–0,32), then rises
(0,32–0,58)—aligning with modularity.
Low threshold/high modularity signals efficient
connectivity given well-defined communities (e.g.,
communication is faster when people are orga-
nized in groups and allotted resources are suffi-
cient), while high threshold/low modularity signals
mixed communities requiring high connectivity ef-
fort (e.g., mixed groups hinder person-finding, re-
quiring more channels and impeding communica-
tion).
6
Conclusion and Future Work
This work case-studies conceptual change dur-
ing the Chemical Revolution (i.e., phlogiston-to-
oxygen) via interpretable complex networks. Our
analysis reveals two findings: 1) a topic cluster
shifts from air to acid, showing onomasiological
change given the movement of core/peripheral read-
ings accompanied by higher entropy, and 2) net-
work communities and modularity decline, while
percolation and edge density rise, indicating higher
connectivity effort.
These results indicate that
changing concepts form high entropy clusters (i.e.,
more variability of ideas) that increase topological
density in the knowledge network (i.e., more effort
is needed for community finding and message pass-
ing), potentially hindering communication. Future
work will refine representation of rare terms and
add directed edges (e.g., colexification, citations
linked to terms) to account for semantic and so-
cial directionality, and predict inter-temporal graph
links via node/edge embeddings to identify influen-
tial documents and authors.
Limitations
Our corpus so far is limited to English scientific
texts, which does not account for the whole spec-
trum of ideas exchanged during the Chemical Rev-
olution. Adding multilingual and multi-genre texts
is a desiderata to work towards a comprehensive
picture. In this study, we derived core and periph-
eral terms from topic-word distributions rather than
cluster centroids, potentially overlooking document
embedding geometries. Rare peripheral terms re-
ceive sparse representations, potentially missing
subtle shifts. As an approach that builds undirected
graphs, the formed edges overlook semantic direc-
tionality; representing this is important to under-
stand how concepts evolve (e.g., through meaning
gain or loss), making of the conceptual structure
a phylogenetic tree (Carling et al., 2023). Future
work will address these challenges via directed
graphs and rare-term augmentation, as well as the
estimation of phylogenetic structures. Moreover,
to test the generalizability of the approach, first
steps will include modeling conceptual transitions
Figure 4: Topic entropy over time. While in cumulative sampling (left) entropy trajectories of oxygen-related
terms increase over time, non-cumulative sampling (right) shows a decline then rise during the development of
oxygen theory (cf. 1772-1789 in Thagard (1990)).
across disciplines (e.g., germ plasm to chromoso-
mal genes in biology).
Acknowledgments
Funded by the European Union under grant
101119511. Views and opinions expressed are how-
ever those of the authors only and do not necessar-
ily reflect those of the European Union. Neither
the European Union nor the granting authority can
be held responsible for them.
References
Christin Beck. 2024. Review of Tahmasebi, Borin, Ja-
towt, Xu & Hengchen (2021): Computational Ap-
proaches to Semantic Change. Journal of Historical
Linguistics, 14(2):376–384.
Yoshua Bengio, Réjean Ducharme, Pascal Vincent, and
Christian Janvin. 2003. A neural probabilistic lan-
guage model. J. Mach. Learn. Res., 3:1137–1155.
Yuri Bizzoni,
Stefania Degaetano-Ortlieb,
Peter
Fankhauser, and Elke Teich. 2020. Linguistic Vari-
ation and Change in 250 Years of English Scientific
Writing: A Data-Driven Approach. Frontiers in Arti-
ficial Intelligence, 3.
Yuri Bizzoni, Stefania Degaetano-Ortlieb, Katrin Men-
zel, and Elke Teich. 2021. The diffusion of scientific
terms – tracing individuals’ influence in the history of
science for English. In Proceedings of the 5th Joint
SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics
for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities
and Literature, pages 120–127, Punta Cana, Domini-
can Republic (online). Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Andreas Blank. 2013. Why do new meanings occur?
A cognitive typology of the motivations for lexical
semantic change. In Andreas Blank and Peter Koch,
editors, Historical Semantics and Cognition, pages
61–90. De Gruyter Mouton.
David M. Blei, Andrew Y. Ng, and Michael I. Jordan.
2003. Latent dirichlet allocation. J. Mach. Learn.
Res., 3:993–1022.
Vincent D Blondel, Jean-Loup Guillaume, Renaud Lam-
biotte, and Etienne Lefebvre. 2008.
Fast unfold-
ing of communities in large networks.
Journal
of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment,
2008(10):P10008.
Lee K. Brown. 1997. “Dephlogisticated Air” Revis-
ited: Oxygen Treatment for Central Sleep Apnea
Syndrome. CHEST, 111(2):269–271. Publisher: El-
sevier.
Lars Buitinck, Gilles Louppe, Mathieu Blondel, Fabian
Pedregosa, Andreas Mueller, Olivier Grisel, Vlad
Niculae, Peter Prettenhofer, Alexandre Gramfort,
Jaques Grobler, Robert Layton, Jake VanderPlas, Ar-
naud Joly, Brian Holt, and Gaël Varoquaux. 2013.
API design for machine learning software: experi-
ences from the scikit-learn project. In ECML PKDD
workshop: Languages for data mining and machine
learning, pages 108–122.
Gerd Carling, Sandra Cronhamn, Olof Lundgren, Victor
Bogren Svensson, and Johan Frid. 2023. The evo-
lution of lexical semantics dynamics, directionality,
and drift. Frontiers in Communication, 8.
Hasok Chang. 2011.
The Persistence of Epistemic
Objects Through Scientific Change.
Erkenntnis,
75(3):413–429.
Hasok Chang. 2015. The Chemical Revolution revisited.
Studies in History and Philosophy of Science Part A,
49:91–98.
Stefania Degaetano-Ortlieb and Elke Teich. 2019. To-
ward an optimal code for communication: The case
of scientific English. Corpus Linguistics and Linguis-
tic Theory, 18(1):175–207.
Haim Dubossarsky, Daphna Weinshall, and Eitan Gross-
man. 2017. Outta control: Laws of semantic change
and inherent biases in word representation models.
In Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empiri-
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
1136–1145, Copenhagen, Denmark. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Peter Fankhauser, Jörg Knappen, and Elke Teich. 2016.
Topical Diversification Over Time In The Royal So-
ciety Corpus.
Stefan Fischer, Jörg Knappen, Katrin Menzel, and Elke
Teich. 2020. The Royal Society Corpus 6.0: Provid-
ing 300+ Years of Scientific Writing for Humanistic
Study. In Proceedings of the Twelfth Language Re-
sources and Evaluation Conference, pages 794–802,
Marseille, France. European Language Resources
Association.
Dirk Geeraerts. 1997. Diachronic Prototype Seman-
tics: A Contribution Historical Lexicology. Oxford
University Press.
Dirk Geeraerts. 2009. Theories of Lexical Semantics.
Oxford University Press.
Stefan Gries and Martin Hilpert. 2008. The identifica-
tion of stages in diachronic data: Variability-based
neighbour clustering. Corpora, 3:59–81.
Thomas L. Griffiths and Mark Steyvers. 2004. Find-
ing scientific topics. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, 101(suppl_1):5228–5235. Pub-
lisher: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sci-
ences.
David Hall, Daniel Jurafsky, and Christopher D. Man-
ning. 2008. Studying the History of Ideas Using
Topic Models. In Proceedings of the 2008 Confer-
ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, pages 363–371, Honolulu, Hawaii. Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics.
William L. Hamilton, Jure Leskovec, and Dan Jurafsky.
2016a. Cultural Shift or Linguistic Drift? Comparing
Two Computational Measures of Semantic Change.
In Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empiri-
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
2116–2121, Austin, Texas. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
William L. Hamilton, Jure Leskovec, and Dan Jurafsky.
2016b. Diachronic Word Embeddings Reveal Sta-
tistical Laws of Semantic Change. In Proceedings
of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 1489–1501, Berlin, Germany. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Frederic L. Holmes. 1994. What was the chemical revo-
lution about. In Abstracts of Papers of the American
Chemical Society, volume 208, pages 13–HIST, USA.
American Chemical Society.
Harang Ju, Dale Zhou, Ann Sizemore Blevins, David M.
Lydon-Staley, Judith Kaplan, Julio Roberto Tuma,
and Danielle S Bassett. 2020. The network structure
of scientific revolutions.
Aleksandra Kaye, Raphael Schlattmann, Malte Vogl,
Bernardo S. Buarque, Jascha Schmitz, Lea Weiß,
and Laura von Welczeck. 2024. Socio-Epistemic
Networks: A Framework for History of Knowledge.
In Charlotte A. Lerg, Johan Östling, Jana Weiß,
Anne Kwaschik, and Claudia Roesch, editors, His-
tory of Intellectual Culture 3/2024: Experimental
Spaces: Knowledge Production and Its Environments
in the Long Nineteenth Century, pages 253–274. De
Gruyter Oldenbourg.
Kara Kedrick, Ekaterina Levitskaya, and Russell J.
Funk. 2024. Conceptual structure and the growth
of scientific knowledge. Nature Human Behaviour,
8(10):1915–1923.
Publisher: Nature Publishing
Group.
Hannah Kermes, Stefania Degaetano-Ortlieb, Ashraf
Khamis, Jörg Knappen, and Elke Teich. 2016. The
Royal Society Corpus: From Uncharted Data to
Corpus. In Proceedings of the Tenth International
Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation
(LREC’16), pages 1928–1931, Portorož, Slovenia.
European Language Resources Association (ELRA).
Reinhart Koselleck. 2006. Die Verzeitlichung der Be-
griffe. In Ulrike Spree and Willibald Steinmetz, edi-
tors, Begriffsgeschichten: Studien Zur Semantik Und
Pragmatik Der Politischen Und Sozialen Sprache,
Suhrkamp Taschenbuch Wissenschaft, page 85.
Suhrkamp, Frankfurt.
Thomas Kuhn. 2012. The Structure of Scientific Rev-
olutions: 50th Anniversary Edition. University of
Chicago Press, Chicago, IL.
Jan Luhmann and Manuel Burghardt. 2022. Digital
humanities—A discipline in its own right? An analy-
sis of the role and position of digital humanities in the
academic landscape. Journal of the Association for
Information Science and Technology, 73(2):148–171.
Alena Lukasová. 1979. Hierarchical agglomerative clus-
tering procedure. Pattern Recognition, 11(5-6):365–
381. Publisher: Elsevier.
Christophe Malaterre and Francis Lareau. 2023. Iden-
tifying Hidden Communities of Interest with Topic-
based Networks: A Case Study of the Community
of Philosophers of Science (1930-2017). In Hawaii
International Conference on System Sciences.
Leland McInnes, John Healy, Nathaniel Saul, and Lukas
Großberger. 2018. UMAP: Uniform manifold ap-
proximation and projection. Journal of Open Source
Software, 3(29):861.
David Mimno, Hanna M. Wallach, Edmund Talley,
Miriam Leenders, and Andrew McCallum. 2011. Op-
timizing semantic coherence in topic models.
In
Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Meth-
ods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP ’11,
pages 262–272, USA. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
John W. Mohr and Petko Bogdanov. 2013. Introduc-
tion—Topic models: What they are and why they
matter. Poetics, 41(6):545–569.
Francesco Periti and Stefano Montanelli. 2024. Lexical
Semantic Change through Large Language Models: a
Survey. ACM Comput. Surv., 56(11):282:1–282:38.
Filippo Radicchi. 2015. Predicting percolation thresh-
olds in networks. Physical Review E, 91(1):010801.
Benjamin M Schmidt. 2012. Words Alone: Dismantling
Topic Models in the Humanities. Journal of Digital
Humanities, 2(1):49–65.
Claude Elwood Shannon. 1948. A mathematical the-
ory of communication. The Bell System Technical
Journal.
Carson Sievert and Kenneth Shirley. 2014. LDAvis: A
method for visualizing and interpreting topics. In
Proceedings of the workshop on interactive language
learning, visualization, and interfaces, pages 63–70.
Nina Tahmasebi, Lars Borin, Adam Jatowt, Yang Xu,
and Simon Hengchen. 2021.
Computational ap-
proaches to semantic change. Language Science
Press, Berlin.
Elke Teich, Peter Fankhauser, Stefania Degaetano-
Ortlieb, and Yuri Bizzoni. 2021. Less is More/More
Diverse: On The Communicative Utility of Linguis-
tic Conventionalization. Frontiers in Communication,
5.
Paul Thagard. 1990.
The Conceptual Structure of
the Chemical Revolution. Philosophy of Science,
57(2):183–209.
Publisher:
[The University of
Chicago Press, Philosophy of Science Association].
Lev Semenoviˇc Vygotsky. 1994. The Development of
Thinking and Concept Formation in Adolescence. In
René van der Veer, editor, Vygotsky Reader, pages
185–266. Blackwell, Oxford.
Ladislav Zgusta. 2011.
Onomasiological change:
Sachen-change reflected by Wörter.
In Edgar C.
Polomé, editor, Research Guide on Language
Change, pages 389–398. De Gruyter Mouton.
Figure A1: Temporal graphs. The colors illustrate the number of communities which went on decline: starting at 5
(1750s) and ending at 3 (1800s).
Figure A2: Network metrics. We used five parameters to interpret network stability over time: nodes size, edge
density (where y = 1 × 103, e.g., last number of edges reported is >60 000), communities count, modularity and
percolation threshold.
