Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 4969–4983
July 5 - 10, 2020. c2020 Association for Computational Linguistics4969S2ORC: The Semantic Scholar Open Research Corpus
Kyle LoyLucy Lu WangyMark NeumannyRodney KinneyyDaniel S. Weldyz
yAllen Institute for Artiﬁcial Intelligence
zPaul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, University of Washington
fkylel, lucywg@allenai.org
Abstract
We introduce S2ORC,1a large corpus of
81.1M English-language academic papers
spanning many academic disciplines. The cor-
pus consists of rich metadata, paper abstracts,
resolved bibliographic references, as well as
structured full text for 8.1M open access pa-
pers. Full text is annotated with automatically-
detected inline mentions of citations, ﬁgures,
and tables, each linked to their correspond-
ing paper objects. In S2ORC, we aggregate
papers from hundreds of academic publishers
and digital archives into a uniﬁed source, and
create the largest publicly-available collection
of machine-readable academic text to date. We
hope this resource will facilitate research and
development of tools and tasks for text mining
over academic text.
1 Introduction
Academic papers are an increasingly important
textual domain for natural language processing
(NLP) research. Aside from capturing valuable
knowledge from humankind’s collective research
efforts, academic papers exhibit many interest-
ing characteristics – thousands of words organized
into sections, objects such as tables, ﬁgures and
equations, frequent inline references to these ob-
jects, footnotes, other papers, and more.
Different types of resources have been used
to support research over academic papers. Cita-
tion graphs like AMiner’s Open Academic Graph
(Tang et al., 2008), the Microsoft Academic Graph
(MAG) (Shen et al., 2018), and the Semantic
Scholar literature graph (Ammar et al., 2018),
have had widespread application in bibliomet-
rics, science-of-science, information retrieval, and
network analysis. Digital archives like arXiv,2
denotes equal contribution
1Instructions for access to the data and model are avail-
able at https://github.com/allenai/s2orc/ .
2https://arxiv.org
Figure 1: Inline citations and references to ﬁgures and
tables are annotated in S2ORC’s structured full text.
Citations are linked to bibliography entries, which are
linked to other papers in S2ORC. Figure and table ref-
erences are linked to their captions.
PubMed Central,3CiteSeerX (Giles et al., 1998),4
and the ACL Anthology (Bird et al., 2008),5
are popular resources for deriving large text cor-
pora for summarization and language modeling or,
with further annotation, development of datasets
for tasks like entity extraction, text classiﬁca-
tion, parsing, and discourse analysis. We focus
on bibliometrically-enhanced derivations of these
corpora, such as the ACL Anthology Network
(AAN) (Radev et al., 2009)6derived from the ACL
Anthology, RefSeer (Huang et al., 2015) derived
from CiteSeerX, and Saier and F ¨arber (2019) de-
rived from arXiv, which combine useful aspects
of citation graphs and raw text corpora. These re-
sources provide citation mentions linked to paper
identiﬁers in their corresponding digital archives,
such as the ACL Anthology and CiteSeerX, or to
nodes in citation graphs such as MAG, enabling
new forms of cross-paper discourse analysis (e.g.,
studying how orwhypapers are related).
3https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc
4https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu
5https://www.aclweb.org/anthology
6http://aan.how/
---PAGE---
4970CorpusPapers w/
body textCitation
contextsReferences to
tables / ﬁgures /
equationsLinked to
graphAcademic
disciplines
S2ORC (PDF-parse) 8.1M full text yes S2ORC (full) multi
S2ORC (L ATEX-parse) 1.5M full text yes S2ORC (full) physics, math, CS
PubMed Central (OA) 2.6M full text yes PubMed bio, med
AAN (Radev et al., 2009) 25k full text no ACL Anthology comp ling
Saier and F ¨arber (2019)y1.0M snippets no MAG physics, math, CS
RefSeer (Huang et al., 2015) 1.0M snippets no CiteSeerX multi
Table 1: A comparison of S2ORC with other publicly-available academic text corpora. Of the other corpora:
PubMed Central (OA) links to PubMed, which contains 30M papers at the time of writing. AAN links to the
ACL Anthology (which contained 25k papers at the time of dataset construction, and 54k papers at the time of
writing). Saier and F ¨arber (2019) is derived from arXiv and links to MAG (which contained 213M papers and
other non-paper documents at the time of dataset construction, and 226M nodes at the time of writing). RefSeer
links to CiteSeerX (which contained 1M papers at the time of dataset construction, and 6M papers at the time of
writing). S2ORC contains three times more full text papers than PubMed Central (OA), the next largest corpus
with bibliometric enhancements, while covering a more diverse set of academic disciplines. Citations in S2ORC
are linked to the full set of S2ORC papers, 81.1M paper nodes derived from Semantic Scholar. In addition,
the L ATEX subset of S2ORC captures additional structure omitted by Saier and F ¨arber (2019), who also parse
LATEX sources from arXiv.
ySaier and F ¨arber (2020) is an update to this work which now includes full text. It is released concurrently with this work.
Yet, existing corpora are not without their limi-
tations. Some cover a small number of papers (e.g.
AAN), are domain-speciﬁc (e.g. AAN, PubMed
Central, Saier and F ¨arber (2019)), or may not pro-
vide usable full text (e.g. Saier and F ¨arber (2019)
and RefSeer). To address these issues, we intro-
duce S2ORC,7the Semantic Scholar8Open Re-
search Corpus, a large publicly-available collec-
tion of 81.1M academic papers covering dozens
of academic disciplines. Each paper is associated
with metadata and abstracts aggregated from hun-
dreds of trusted sources such as academic publish-
ers and literature archives like PubMed and arXiv.
Notably, we release structured, machine-
readable full text extracted from PDFs for 8.1M
papers which we’ve identiﬁed as having open ac-
cess status. S2ORC full text preserves meaningful
structure, e.g., paragraph breaks, section headers,
inline citation mentions, references to tables and
ﬁgures, and resolved citation links to other papers.
Additionally, we provide 1.5M full text L ATEX
parses from which we have extracted, in addition
to citations and references, the source text of ta-
bles and mathematical formulas. As shown in Ta-
ble 1, S2ORC provides substantially more struc-
tured full text papers and covers a more diverse set
of academic disciplines than other resources.
7pronounced “stork”
8The papers included in S2ORC are a curated subset of
the papers in the Semantic Scholar literature graph (Ammar
et al., 2018) that focuses only on English-language papers
with abstracts or full text available. See §2.5 for details on
ﬁltering through Semantic Scholar papers.In this paper, we describe the construction of
S2ORC (§2). We provide summary statistics of
the corpus (§3) and evaluate the data quality (§4).
We then evaluate a BERT model pretrained on
S2ORC (§5), and discuss potential applications to
a variety of NLP and analysis tasks over academic
text (§6). Finally, we compare S2ORC with other
publicly-available academic text corpora (§7).
2 Constructing the corpus
S2ORC is constructed using data from the Se-
mantic Scholar literature corpus (Ammar et al.,
2018). Papers in Semantic Scholar are derived
from numerous sources: obtained directly from
publishers, from resources such as MAG, from
various archives such as arXiv or PubMed, or
crawled from the open Internet. Semantic Scholar
clusters these papers based on title similarity and
DOI overlap, resulting in an initial set of approxi-
mately 200M paper clusters.
To construct S2ORC, we must overcome chal-
lenges in (i) paper metadata aggregation, (ii) iden-
tifying open access publications, and (iii) cluster-
ing papers, in addition to identifying, extracting,
and cleaning the full text and bibliometric annota-
tions associated with each paper. The pipeline for
creating S2ORC is:
1) Process PDFs and L ATEX sources to derive
metadata, clean full text, inline citations and
references, and bibliography entries,
2) Select the best metadata and full text parses
for each paper cluster,
---PAGE---
49713) Filter paper clusters with insufﬁcient meta-
data or content, and
4) Resolve bibliography links between paper
clusters in the corpus.
Details for these steps are provided below. See
Appendix §A for deﬁnitions of terminology. The
output of this pipeline is visualized in Figure 1.
2.1 Processing PDFs
We process PDFs from the Semantic Scholar cor-
pus using S CIENCE PARSE v3.0.09and G ROBID
v0.5.510(Lopez, 2009). Our processing pipeline
is described below.
Selecting PDFs We remove PDFs which are less
likely to be academic papers. S CIENCE PARSE and
GROBID are not optimized for processing non-
paper academic documents such as dissertations,
reports, slides, etc., and this ﬁltering step is neces-
sary to increase output data quality. See Appendix
§B for ﬁlter details. There are around 31.3M PDFs
associated with approximately 200M initial paper
clusters, and 30.5M PDFs are selected for process-
ing based on these ﬁltering criteria.
Extracting structured data from PDFs We use
SCIENCE PARSE to extract title and authors from
each PDF.11We then use G ROBID to process each
PDF. From the XML output of G ROBID , we ex-
tract (i) metadata such as title, authors, and ab-
stract, (ii) paragraphs from the body text orga-
nized under section headings, (iii) ﬁgure and ta-
ble captions, (iv) equations, table content, headers,
and footers, which we remove from the body text,
(v) inline citations in the abstract and body text,
(vi) parsed bibliography entries with title, authors,
year, and venue identiﬁed, and (vi) links between
inline citation mentions and their corresponding
bibliography entries.
Postprocessing G ROBID output We postpro-
cess G ROBID output using regular expressions to
classify the parenthetical citation style of a pa-
per as BRACKET (e.g. [2]), NAME -YEAR (e.g.
ABC, 2019), or OTHER (superscripts and other
mixed styles). We focus on addressing two types
of common errors in G ROBID ’s inline citation ex-
tractions: (i) false positives resulting from super-
scripts or equation references being recognized as
9https://github.com/allenai/science-
parse
10https://github.com/kermitt2/grobid
11Our evaluations suggest S CIENCE PARSE outperforms
GROBID for title and author extraction.inline citations in papers with BRACKET -style ci-
tations, and (ii) false negatives resulting from an
inability to expand bracket citation ranges (e.g.
“[3]-[5]” should be expanded to “[3], [4], [5]” be-
fore linking). False positives are detected using
regular expressions and removed from G ROBID
output. Bracket citation ranges are manually ex-
panded and linked to their corresponding bibliog-
raphy entries. The resulting parses are expressed
in JSON format.12
2.2 Processing L ATEX source
LATEX document source is available for a major-
ity of arXiv submissions, and where available, are
used to construct a full text parse. We retrieve
body text, section headers, ﬁgure/table captions,
table representations, equations, and inline cita-
tions and references directly from L ATEX source.
Inspired by Saier and F ¨arber (2019), we ﬁrst con-
vert L ATEX source into XML documents and then
extract structured information from the XML.
Due to direct access to source, the accuracy of
citation span, reference, caption, section header,
and equation detection is near-perfect. We process
1.5M papers from L ATEX source derived from
arXiv, all of which are included as part of S2ORC.
Surprisingly, due to the diversity of ways in which
authors deﬁne metadata in L ATEX, the quality
of metadata extracted from L ATEX documents is
worse than those extracted from PDF. Therefore,
we do not use L ATEX-derived metadata for paper
clustering or metadata selection.
2.3 Selecting canonical metadata
Canonical values for title, authors and other meta-
data ﬁelds are selected from among the papers in a
cluster. First, if a cluster contains multiple PDFs,
we select one to be canonical. This can occur, for
example, in a cluster containing an arXiv preprint
and its eventual camera-ready version. We pref-
erentially select PDFs from open access sources
and break ties by prioritizing PDFs for which there
exist richer publisher-provided metadata (e.g. ab-
stract, year, venue, DOI). If the selected PDF is
associated with publisher-provided metadata, we
select those publisher-provided metadata ﬁelds to
be canonical.
In cases where publisher-provided metadata
is incomplete, we use majority voting to select
12The S2ORC data format is described at https://
github.com/allenai/s2orc
---PAGE---
4972canonical metadata values. We break ties by min-
imizing the total number of sources from which
we select metadata (e.g., if IEEE provides title,
authors and abstract, DBLP provides title and au-
thors, and arXiv provides title and abstract, we pri-
oritize selecting IEEE over the union of DBLP and
arXiv). S2ORC metadata ﬁelds include title, au-
thor, year, venue, journal, abstract, and identiﬁers
(DOI, PubMed, PubMed Central (PMC), arXiv,
and ACL Anthology).
In cases where the title and authors are not pro-
vided by any publishers, we derive the values for
these ﬁelds from the parsed PDF, prioritizing S CI-
ENCE PARSE over G ROBID . We further comment
on paper clustering as it pertains to metadata se-
lection in Appendix §C.
2.4 Assembling the corpus
We construct the ﬁnal corpus by assembling clus-
tered paper metadata with G ROBID and L ATEX
parse objects. We associate the G ROBID parse
with the S2ORC paper object if a valid G ROBID
parse is produced from the PDF, and the PDF is
open access. Open access status is assigned if
a paper is derived from arXiv, ACL Anthology,
PubMed Central (OA), and/or associated with an
open-access DOI in the Unpaywall database.13If
the PDF is not open access, we only include the
bibliography from the G ROBID parse in S2ORC.
If arXiv L ATEX source is available for the paper
cluster, we also associate the L ATEX parse with
the S2ORC paper object.
2.5 Filtering paper clusters
We further ﬁlter paper clusters to remove papers
with (i) no title, (ii) no authors, (iii) fewer than
100 characters of abstract and body text, and (iv)
where English is not the primary language. The
ﬁrst three ﬁlters remove papers that provide little
value for bibliometric-based or text-based analy-
ses. The English language ﬁlter14reduces G RO-
BIDparsing errors. All ﬁlters are applied in series.
Subsequently, 95.5M paper clusters are ﬁltered
out based on the aforementioned criteria and re-
moved from the corpus. The distribution of ﬁl-
tered papers is given in Table 2. We note that
a large number of paper clusters are ﬁltered out;
80.0M of these ﬁltered clusters have no associated
publisher-provided abstract or associated PDF and
13Unpaywall 2019-04-19 data dump
14We use the cld2 tool for language detection with a
threshold of 0.9 over the English language score.do not provide signiﬁcant value to our dataset in
their current state. Although these papers that lack
text may be useful as cite-able nodes in S2ORC,
they are generally of lower quality and are ﬁltered
out of the corpus to improve corpus quality.
Filter Number of papers
No title 20k
No authors 0.3M
<100 chars of text 80.0M
Not English 15.2M
Table 2: Post-processing data quality ﬁlters for papers
2.6 Linking bibliographies to papers
Each bibliography entry in both G ROBID and L A-
TEX parses are linked to the most similar papers
in the corpus. For linking, we score each bibli-
ography entry and paper cluster pair using a sim-
ilarity score computed between their titles. Each
title is ﬁrst normalized (i.e. white spaces stripped,
lower-cased, special characters removed) and rep-
resented by its character 3-grams. The similarity
scoreStitleis computed as the harmonic mean be-
tween a Jaccard index and a containment metric:
Stitle=2JC
J+C(1)
where the Jaccard index Jand containment metric
Care computed from the n-grams of the two titles
N1andN2as:
J=jN1\N2j
jN1[N2j
C=jN1\N2j
min (jN1j;jN2j)
For each bibliography entry, the bibliography-
paper pair with the highest similarity score above
0.8 is output as the correct link. Otherwise, the
bibliography entry remains unlinked. We perform
an evaluation of linking performance in §4.
3 The S2ORC dataset
The resulting corpus consists of 81.1M pa-
pers. Our publisher-provided abstract coverage is
90.4%, or 73.4M papers. Our PDF coverage is
35.6%, or 28.9M papers. These PDFs are pro-
cessed using the pipeline discussed in §2.1. The
---PAGE---
4973Total papers 81.1M
Papers w/ PDF 28.9M (35.6%)
Papers w/ bibliographies 27.6M (34.1%)
Papers w/ G ROBID full text 8.1M (10.0%)
Papers w/ LaTeX full text 1.5M (1.8%)
Papers w/ publisher abstract 73.4M (90.4%)
Papers w/ DOIs 52.2M (64.3%)
Papers w/ Pubmed IDs 21.5M (26.5%)
Papers w/ PMC IDs 4.7M (5.8%)
Papers w/ ArXiv IDs 1.7M (2.0%)
Papers w/ ACL IDs 42k (0.1%)
Table 3: Statistics on paper provenance. We note that
categories are not mutually exclusive and do not sum to
100%. All papers in S2ORC have either a publisher-
provided abstract or an associated PDF from which we
derive full text and/or bibliography entries, or both.
Statistic G ROBID LATEX
Paragraphs (abstract) 1.1 -
Paragraphs (body) 9.9 93.3*
Inline cite spans (abstract) 0.7 -
Inline cite spans (body) 45.2 46.8
Bibliography entries 27.6 21.9
Linked bib. entries 19.3 6.8y
Table 4: Extraction and linking statistics over PDF and
LATEX parses. Reported values are averaged over all
open access papers, which consist of 8.1M G ROBID -
parsed PDFs and 1.5M parsed L ATEX sources.
*LATEX preserves line breaks rather than paragraph breaks.
yThe lower number of linked bibliography entries in L ATEX
parses is due to large numbers of papers (mostly in the ﬁeld
of physics) for which the bibliography entries are formatted
without paper titles. Our linking algorithm strongly depends
on titles and fails to link these entries.
vast majority of these PDFs are successfully pro-
cessed using G ROBID , and we extract bibliogra-
phy entries for 27.6M of the 28.9M PDFs. We
identify 8.1M of the 28.9M PDFs as open access
(§2.4), and we provide full text for all papers in
this open access subset. For the 1.5M papers for
which L ATEX source is available through arXiv,
we further obtain and provide L ATEX parses
(§2.2). Using these extracted bibliographies, we
resolve a total 380.5M citation links between pa-
pers (§2.6), 156.5M of which can be tied back to
their inline citation mentions in the full text. See
Table 3 for more provenance statistics.
We provide statistics for the G ROBID and L A-
TEX full text parses and bibliography linking in
Figure 2: Distribution of papers by Microsoft Aca-
demic ﬁeld of study.
Table 4. On average, L ATEX parses contain many
more “paragraphs” of body text, because L ATEX
source ﬁles preserve line breaks rather than para-
graph breaks. We speculate that differences in bib-
liography entry and linking counts between the
GROBID and L ATEX parses are due to a com-
bination of: (i) challenges in L ATEX bibliogra-
phy expansion and parsing, and (ii) differences in
bibliography formatting in some math and physics
venues (where bibliography entries do not include
paper titles, which we depend on for bibliography
linking).
The distribution of academic disciplines in
S2ORC is given in Figure 2 using Microsoft Aca-
demic ﬁelds of study. Not all papers in S2ORC
can be found in Microsoft Academic – those not
found are denoted as Unclassiﬁed . Approximately
677k papers have more than one primary Mi-
crosoft Academic ﬁeld of study; Figure 2 repre-
sents only the top ﬁeld of study for each paper.
4 Evaluation
To evaluate the quality of our metadata selection,
we randomly sample 500 paper clusters, restrict-
ing to those with PDFs. Within each sampled clus-
ter, we determine whether the canonical title and
authors match the title and authors in the selected
canonical PDF.
Inline citation detection and bibliography pars-
ing are dependent on G ROBID (Lopez, 2009). Ah-
mad and Afzal (2018) evaluate G ROBID for de-
---PAGE---
4974Domain Dataset Reference Task S CIBERT S2ORC-
SCIBERT
BC5CDR Li et al. (2016) NER 90.01 90.41 0.06
JNLPBA Collier and Kim (2004) NER 77.28 77.70 0.25
NCBI-disease Do ˘gan et al. (2014) NER 88.57 88.70 0.52
Biomed EBM-NLP Nye et al. (2018) PICO 72.28 72.35 0.95
GENIA Kim et al. (2003) DEP (LAS) 90.43 90.80 0.19
GENIA Kim et al. (2003) DEP (UAS) 91.99 92.31 0.18
ChemProt Krallinger et al. (2017) REL 83.64 84.59 0.93
SciERC Luan et al. (2018) NER 67.57 68.93 0.19
CS SciERC Luan et al. (2018) REL 79.97 81.77 1.64
ACL-ARC Jurgens et al. (2018) CLS 70.98 68.45 2.47
Biomed & CS SciCite Cohan et al. (2019) CLS 85.49 84.76 0.37
Multi-domain PaperField Beltagy et al. (2019) CLS 65.71 65.99 0.08
Table 5: S2ORC-S CIBERT test results are comparable with reported S CIBERT test results on the set of tasks
and datasets from Beltagy et al. (2019), to which we refer the reader for descriptions. Reported statistics are span-
level F1 for NER, token-level F1 for PICO, dependency parsing (DEP), and macro-F1 for relation (REL) and text
(CLS) classiﬁcation. We report micro-F1 for ChemProt. All S2ORC-S CIBERT results are the mean standard
deviation of 5 runs with different random seeds. Beltagy et al. (2019) do not report standard deviation or number
of runs.
tecting inline citations using a corpus of 5k Cite-
Seer papers, and found G ROBID to have an F1-
score of 0.89 on this task. Tkaczyk et al. (2018) re-
port G ROBID as the best among 10 out-of-the-box
tools for parsing bibliographies, also achieving an
F1 of 0.89 in an evaluation corpus of 9.5k papers.
We perform an evaluation over 200 randomly sam-
pled papers from S2ORC and found comparable
F1-scores for G ROBID performance on both tasks.
For bibliography linking, we randomly sample
S2ORC papers (500 G ROBID PDF parses and 100
LATEX parses) and select one linked bibliography
entry from each sampled paper (while avoiding se-
lecting multiple entries linked to the same paper).
We determine whether the title and authors in the
bibliography entry agree with the title and authors
of the linked paper.
We present these evaluation results in Table 6
and detail valuation criteria in Appendix §D.
Evaluated task Title Authors
Paper clustering 0.93 0.89
Bib. linking (G ROBID ) 1.00 0.96
Bib. linking (L ATEX) 1.00 0.92
Table 6: Accuracy of paper clustering and bibliography
linking for titles and authors in sampled evaluation sets.5 Pretraining BERT on S2ORC
To demonstrate the suitability of S2ORC for lan-
guage model pretraining, we train BERT-Base
(Devlin et al., 2019) on the parsed full text
of S2ORC and show that the resulting model
(S2ORC-S CIBERT) performs similarly to S CI-
BERT (Beltagy et al., 2019) on a diverse suite of
scientiﬁc NLP tasks and datasets.
While S CIBERT is a BERT-Base model also
trained on multiple domains of scientiﬁc text, key
differences in its pretraining corpus and vocabu-
lary and those used for S2ORC-S CIBERT are:
•Domain: Beltagy et al. (2019) report a pre-
training corpus consisting of 82% biomedi-
cal and 18% computer science papers. Our
S2ORC pretraining corpus consists of a
more balanced distribution of papers across
diverse academic disciplines (see Figure 2),
such that biomedical (42.7%) and computer
science (7.2%) papers only comprise half the
corpus.
•Preprocessing: S2ORC identiﬁes ﬁgure
captions, table text and captions, headers,
footers, and footnotes. We exclude these
from the pretraining corpus. We tokenize and
sentencize the text using scispaCy (Neumann
et al., 2019). We also use heuristic ﬁlters to
remove ill-formed paragraphs (such as those
containing too many symbols).
•Size: The resulting S2ORC pretraining cor-
---PAGE---
4975pus contains 16.4B tokens, nearly ﬁve times
larger than the corpus for S CIBERT.
•Vocab: Following Beltagy et al. (2019),
we construct a cased WordPiece (Wu et al.,
2016) vocabulary of size 31k using 15% of
the S2ORC pretraining corpus. The Jaccard
index between the S2ORC-S CIBERT and
SCIBERT vocabularies is 0.536.
We follow a similar setup to Beltagy et al.
(2019) for both pretraining and ﬁne-tuning
S2ORC-S CIBERT. Like S CIBERT, S2ORC-
SCIBERT is pretrained from scratch using the
original BERT code15and default BERT-Base
conﬁgurations on a single TPU v3-8 for one week.
Also like S CIBERT, S2ORC-S CIBERT is ﬁne-
tuned on all tasks by optimizing a cross entropy
loss using Adam (Kingma and Ba, 2014), a linear
learning rate decay with 10% warm-up, batch size
of 32, and dropout of 0.1.
We search over an equal-sized grid of hyperpa-
rameters as Beltagy et al. (2019). We ﬁne-tune for
1 to 4 epochs with a maximum learning rate of
1e-5, 2e-5, 3e-5, or 5e-5. For each task, we select
the optimal combination of these two hyperparam-
eters using the development set and report the cor-
responding test set results. For details, we refer
the reader to S CIBERT code,16which we use for
all experiments.
The results in Table 5 show that S2ORC-
SCIBERT outperforms S CIBERT on many tasks
despite including a large percentage of data out-
side of the biomedical and computer science do-
mains. As the pretraining corpus for S CIBERT
is not publicly-available, S2ORC can serve as a
large pretraining corpus for evaluating and com-
paring pretraining approaches on academic text.
We also release S2ORC-S CIBERT to serve as a
baseline for research.
6 Applications of S2ORC
S2ORC can be used for many NLP and analysis
tasks over academic text. We give a summary of
potential applications below.
The combination of structured full text anno-
tated with linked inline citations makes S2ORC
well-suited for a variety of citation-related text-
based tasks. Without any additional supervision,
S2ORC can be used directly for both inline (He
15https://github.com/google-research/
bert
16https://github.com/allenai/scibertet al., 2010; Duma and Klein, 2014; Jeong et al.,
2019) and document-level (Yu et al., 2012; Liu
et al., 2015; Bhagavatula et al., 2018) citation
recommendation. Among document-level recom-
menders, S2ORC is well-suited to the setting of
Liu et al. (2015), who use inline citation contexts
to ﬁlter document-level recommendations.
Figure 3: Word2vec embeddings associated with 20k
papers in six AI-related arXiv categories visualized us-
ing t-SNE (van der Maaten and Hinton, 2008). Exam-
ple papers from two randomly selected sub-regions A
and B are given in Table 7.
Region A
cs.LG “On Unifying Deep Generative Models”
stat.ML “Learning Disentangled Representations
with Semi-Supervised Deep Generative
Models”
cs.LG “Denoising Criterion for Variational Auto-
Encoding Framework”
cs.CV “Variational methods for conditional multi-
modal deep learning”
Region B
cs.CL “TransA: An Adaptive Approach for
Knowledge Graph Embedding”
cs.AI “TorusE: Knowledge Graph Embedding on
a Lie Group”
cs.CV “Image-embodied Knowledge Representa-
tion Learning”
stat.ML “Neural Embeddings of Graphs in Hyper-
bolic Space”
Table 7: Sampled papers in clusters from t-SNE em-
bedding space in Figure 3. Region A consists of papers
related to deep generative models; region B consists of
papers concerned with graph representation learning.
Other tasks that leverage citation contexts in-
---PAGE---
4976clude classifying citation intent (Teufel et al.,
2006; Jurgens et al., 2018; Cohan et al., 2019),
identifying citation sentiment (Athar and Teufel,
2012), identifying meaningful citations (Valen-
zuela et al., 2015), extracting key phrases (Caragea
et al., 2014), and citation context-based paper
summarization (Teufel et al., 2006; Qazvinian and
Radev, 2008; Cohan and Goharian, 2015; Mitrovi ´c
and M ¨uller, 2015). The models in these pa-
pers require labeled citation contexts for train-
ing. S2ORC could potentially beneﬁt task per-
formance without additional annotation, for exam-
ple, by pretraining language models on S2ORC
citation contexts before ﬁne-tuning to these tasks.
Cohan et al. (2019) ﬁnd that long citation contexts
(beyond sentence boundary) are important for
tasks like summarization; the wider citation con-
texts available in S2ORC could be used to aug-
ment existing datasets for document-level tasks.
Citation contexts can also be used for the
more general tasks of identifying similar papers
(Kanakia et al., 2019; Eto, 2019; Haruna et al.,
2018; Small, 1973) or bibliometric analysis (Ding
et al., 2014; Trujillo and Long, 2018; Asatani
et al., 2018). Towards these tasks, the citation con-
texts in S2ORC can provide insight into how and
why papers are cited. We illustrate this by fol-
lowing Berger et al. (2016) in training a word2vec
skip-gram model (Mikolov et al., 2013) using full
text citation contexts in S2ORC, where each in-
line citation span is replaced with its linked pa-
per identiﬁer. When training over this modiﬁed
text, the word2vec model learns embeddings cor-
responding to each unique paper identiﬁer, which
can be leveraged as paper embeddings. The re-
sulting embeddings shown in Figure 3 and Table 7
form clusters corresponding closely to arXiv Ma-
chine Learning categories. Upon inspection, pa-
pers of different categories in the same embedding
sub-region share research themes (see Table 7), in-
dicating that these paper embeddings trained from
citation contexts capture coherent topic similarity
and relatedness. These paper embeddings can be
used to identify similar papers, using the similar-
ity between two papers’ citing contexts as a proxy
for paper similarity.
The L ATEX subset of S2ORC also provides
unique opportunities for research. In addition to
citations and references, we also extract and parse
tables from L ATEX source into a structured for-
mat. There is an opportunity to use these ta-bles for corpus-level results extraction and aggre-
gation. The L ATEX subset also has ﬁne-grained
extraction and labeling of mathematical formulas,
which can be used to understand proof construc-
tion, or to assist in symbol co-reference resolution.
7 Related work
The ACL Anthology Network (AAN) (Radev
et al., 2009) is a bibliometric-enhanced corpus
covering papers in the ﬁeld of computational lin-
guistics. It is built from the ACL Anthology
(Bird et al., 2008) and consists of 24.6k papers
manually augmented with citation information.
The PubMed Central Open Access corpus is a
large corpus of 2.6M papers in the biomedical
domain with citations linked to PubMed identi-
ﬁers.17CiteSeerX (Giles et al., 1998), consists
of papers collected primarily via web crawl, with-
out integrating metadata provided by sources out-
side of the PDF. Although citation contexts are
no longer available through CiteSeerX, the Ref-
Seer dataset (Huang et al., 2015)18is a dataset of
short citation context snippets derived from 1.0M
papers from CiteSeerX. More recently, Saier and
F¨arber (2019) introduce a corpus built using 1.0M
arXiv publications. They use L ATEX source to
extract text, citation spans and bibliography en-
tries, which are linked to papers in the Microsoft
Academic Graph. The citation context they pro-
vide are extracted snippets and no bibliography
parses are provided. An updated version of this
dataset (Saier and F ¨arber, 2020) released concur-
rently with this work now includes full text.
Compared with these resources, S2ORC rep-
resents a signiﬁcantly larger dataset of linked pa-
pers covering broad domains of science by lever-
aging PDF parsing in addition to L ATEX source.
S2ORC also provides clean full text for text min-
ing and NLP needs with additional enhancements
such as annotations of table and ﬁgure references
and captions. S2ORC’s wealth of metadata and
structured text allows it to be ﬂexibly adapted to a
variety of downstream tasks.
8 Conclusion
We introduce S2ORC, the largest publicly-
available corpus of English-language academic
papers covering dozens of academic disciplines.
17https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/
tools/openftlist/
18https://psu.app.box.com/v/refseer
---PAGE---
4977S2ORC consists of 81.1M papers, 380.5M re-
solved citation links, and structured full text from
8.1M open-access PDFs and 1.5M L ATEX source
ﬁles. We aggregate metadata and abstracts from
hundreds of trusted sources. Full text is aug-
mented with sections, citation mentions, and ref-
erences to tables and ﬁgures. We demonstrate that
S2ORC can be used effectively for downstream
NLP tasks in academic paper analysis.
The pipeline for creating S2ORC was used
to construct the CORD-19 corpus (Wang et al.,
2020), which saw fervent adoption as the
canonical resource for COVID-19 text mining.
CORD-19 is aimed at assisting biomedical ex-
perts and policy makers process large amounts
of COVID-19 literature in the search for effec-
tive treatments and management policies. With
over 75K dataset downloads, dozens of search and
question-answering systems, and hundreds of par-
ticipating teams across two shared tasks19in the
ﬁrst month of its release, there is little doubt of
the resource’s impact. Our hope with the release
of S2ORC is to ensure such text mining resources
are available to researchers even beyond periods
of global crisis.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported in part by ONR grant
N00014-18-1-2193, and the University of Wash-
ington WRF/Cable Professorship.
We thank Doug Downey, Oren Etzioni, Andrew
Head, and Bryan Newbold for their valuable feed-
back on the manuscript. We also thank Isabel Ca-
chola, Dallas Card, Mike D’Arcy, Suchin Guru-
rangan, Daniel King, Rik Koncel-Kedziorski, Su-
san Liu, Kelvin Luu, Noah Smith, Gabi Stanovsky,
and Dave Wadden for feedback on the dataset dur-
ing early development. Finally, we thank the Se-
mantic Scholar team for assisting with data access
and system infrastructure.
References
Riaz Ahmad and Muhammad Tanvir Afzal. 2018. Cad:
an algorithm for citation-anchors detection in re-
search papers. Scientometrics , 117:1405–1423.
Waleed Ammar, Dirk Groeneveld, Chandra Bhagavat-
ula, Iz Beltagy, Miles Crawford, Doug Downey, Ja-
son Dunkelberger, Ahmed Elgohary, Sergey Feld-
man, Vu Ha, Rodney Kinney, Sebastian Kohlmeier,
19The Kaggle CORD-19 and TREC-COVID competitions.
See Wang et al. (2020) for details.Kyle Lo, Tyler Murray, Hsu-Han Ooi, Matthew Pe-
ters, Joanna Power, Sam Skjonsberg, Lucy Wang,
Chris Wilhelm, Zheng Yuan, Madeleine van Zuylen,
and Oren Etzioni. 2018. Construction of the liter-
ature graph in semantic scholar. In Proceedings of
the 2018 Conference of the North American Chap-
ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies, Volume 3 (Industry
Papers) , pages 84–91, New Orleans - Louisiana. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Kimitaka Asatani, Junichiro Mori, Masanao Ochi, and
Ichiro Sakata. 2018. Detecting trends in academic
research from a citation network using network rep-
resentation learning. In PloS one .
Awais Athar and Simone Teufel. 2012. Context-
enhanced citation sentiment detection. In Proceed-
ings of the 2012 Conference of the North Ameri-
can Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies , pages
597–601, Montr ´eal, Canada. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.
Iz Beltagy, Kyle Lo, and Arman Cohan. 2019. Sci-
BERT: A pretrained language model for scientiﬁc
text. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing and the 9th International Joint Conference on
Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) ,
pages 3615–3620, Hong Kong, China. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Matthew Berger, Katherine McDonough, and Lee M
Seversky. 2016. cite2vec: Citation-driven doc-
ument exploration via word embeddings. IEEE
transactions on visualization and computer graph-
ics, 23(1):691–700.
Chandra Bhagavatula, Sergey Feldman, Russell Power,
and Waleed Ammar. 2018. Content-based citation
recommendation. In Proceedings of the 2018 Con-
ference of the North American Chapter of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-
guage Technologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers) , pages
238–251, New Orleans, Louisiana. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Steven Bird, Robert Dale, Bonnie Dorr, Bryan Gibson,
Mark Joseph, Min-Yen Kan, Dongwon Lee, Brett
Powley, Dragomir Radev, and Yee Fan Tan. 2008.
The ACL anthology reference corpus: A reference
dataset for bibliographic research in computational
linguistics. In Proceedings of the Sixth Interna-
tional Conference on Language Resources and Eval-
uation (LREC’08) , Marrakech, Morocco. European
Language Resources Association (ELRA).
Cornelia Caragea, Florin Adrian Bulgarov, Andreea
Godea, and Sujatha Das Gollapalli. 2014. Citation-
enhanced keyphrase extraction from research pa-
pers: A supervised approach. In Proceedings of
the 2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat-
ural Language Processing (EMNLP) , pages 1435–
1446, Doha, Qatar. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
---PAGE---
4978Arman Cohan, Waleed Ammar, Madeleine van Zuylen,
and Field Cady. 2019. Structural scaffolds for ci-
tation intent classiﬁcation in scientiﬁc publications.
InProceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics: Human Language Technolo-
gies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers) , pages
3586–3596, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Arman Cohan and Nazli Goharian. 2015. Scientiﬁc ar-
ticle summarization using citation-context and arti-
cle’s discourse structure. In Proceedings of the 2015
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-
guage Processing , pages 390–400, Lisbon, Portugal.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Nigel Collier and Jin-Dong Kim. 2004. Introduc-
tion to the bio-entity recognition task at JNLPBA.
InProceedings of the International Joint Workshop
on Natural Language Processing in Biomedicine
and its Applications (NLPBA/BioNLP) , pages 73–
78, Geneva, Switzerland. COLING.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training of
deep bidirectional transformers for language under-
standing. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference
of the North American Chapter of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers) ,
pages 4171–4186, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics.
Ying Ding, Guo Zhang, Tamy Chambers, Min Song,
Xiaolong Wang, and Cheng xiang Zhai. 2014.
Content-based citation analysis: The next generation
of citation analysis. JASIST , 65:1820–1833.
Rezarta Islamaj Do ˘gan, Robert Leaman, and Zhiyong
Lu. 2014. Ncbi disease corpus: a resource for dis-
ease name recognition and concept normalization.
Journal of biomedical informatics , 47:1–10.
Daniel Duma and Ewan Klein. 2014. Citation reso-
lution: A method for evaluating context-based cita-
tion recommendation systems. In Proceedings of the
52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short Papers) ,
pages 358–363, Baltimore, Maryland. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Masaki Eto. 2019. Extended co-citation search:
Graph-based document retrieval on a co-citation net-
work containing citation context information. Inf.
Process. Manage. , 56.
C. L. Giles, K. D. Bollacker, and S. Lawrence. 1998.
Citeseer: an automatic citation indexing system. In
Proceedings of the ACM International Conference
on Digital Libraries , pages 89–98. ACM. Proceed-
ings of the 1998 3rd ACM Conference on Digital
Libraries ; Conference date: 23-06-1998 Through
26-06-1998.Khalid Haruna, Maizatul Akmar Ismail, Abdul-
lahi Baffa Bichi, Victor I. Chang, Sutrisna Wibawa,
and Tutut Herawan. 2018. A citation-based recom-
mender system for scholarly paper recommendation.
InICCSA .
Qi He, Jian Pei, Daniel Kifer, Prasenjit Mitra, and
Lee Giles. 2010. Context-aware citation recom-
mendation. In Proceedings of the 19th Interna-
tional Conference on World Wide Web , WWW ’10,
page 421–430, New York, NY , USA. Association for
Computing Machinery.
Wenyi Huang, Zhaohui Wu, Chen Liang, Prasenjit Mi-
tra, and C. Lee Giles. 2015. A neural probabilis-
tic model for context based citation recommenda-
tion. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Ninth AAAI Con-
ference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence , AAAI’15, page
2404–2410. AAAI Press.
Chanwoo Jeong, Sion Jang, Hyuna Shin, Eunjeong
Park, and Sungchul Choi. 2019. A context-aware
citation recommendation model with bert and graph
convolutional networks. arXiv .
David Jurgens, Srijan Kumar, Raine Hoover, Dan Mc-
Farland, and Dan Jurafsky. 2018. Measuring the
evolution of a scientiﬁc ﬁeld through citation frames.
Transactions of the Association for Computational
Linguistics , 6:391–406.
Anshul Kanakia, Zhihong Shen, Darrin Eide, and
Kuansan Wang. 2019. A scalable hybrid research
paper recommender system for microsoft academic.
InThe World Wide Web Conference , WWW ’19,
page 2893–2899, New York, NY , USA. Association
for Computing Machinery.
J-D Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Yuka Tateisi, and Jun’ichi
Tsujii. 2003. Genia corpus—a semantically an-
notated corpus for bio-textmining. Bioinformatics ,
19(suppl 1):i180–i182.
Diederik Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2014. Adam: A
method for stochastic optimization. In International
Conference on Learning Representations .
Martin Krallinger, Obdulia Rabal, Saber Ahmad
Akhondi, Mart ´ın P´erez P ´erez, J ´es´us L ´opez Santa-
mar´ıa, Gael P ´erez Rodr ´ıguez, Georgios Tsatsaro-
nis, Ander Intxaurrondo, Jos ´e Antonio Baso L ´opez,
Umesh Nandal, Erin M. van Buel, A. Poorna Chan-
drasekhar, Marleen Rodenburg, Astrid Lægreid,
Marius A. Doornenbal, Julen Oyarz ´abal, An ´alia
Lourenc ¸o, and Alfonso Valencia. 2017. Overview of
the biocreative vi chemical-protein interaction track.
InN/A.
Jiao Li, Yueping Sun, Robin J Johnson, Daniela Sci-
aky, Chih-Hsuan Wei, Robert Leaman, Allan Peter
Davis, Carolyn J Mattingly, Thomas C Wiegers, and
Zhiyong Lu. 2016. Biocreative V CDR task corpus:
a resource for chemical disease relation extraction.
Database , 2016.
---PAGE---
4979Haifeng Liu, Xiangjie Kong, Xiaomei Bai, Wei Wang,
Teshome Megersa Bekele, and Feng Xia. 2015.
Context-based collaborative ﬁltering for citation rec-
ommendation. IEEE Access , 3:1695–1703.
Nelson F. Liu, Matt Gardner, Yonatan Belinkov,
Matthew E. Peters, and Noah A. Smith. 2019a. Lin-
guistic knowledge and transferability of contextual
representations. In Proceedings of the 2019 Confer-
ence of the North American Chapter of the Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-
guage Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Pa-
pers) , pages 1073–1094, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Yinhan Liu, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei Du, Man-
dar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer Levy, Mike Lewis,
Luke S. Zettlemoyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019b.
RoBERTa: A robustly optimized BERT pretraining
approach. arXiv .
Patrice Lopez. 2009. Grobid: Combining automatic
bibliographic data recognition and term extraction
for scholarship publications. In Proceedings of the
13th European Conference on Research and Ad-
vanced Technology for Digital Libraries , ECDL’09,
page 473–474, Berlin, Heidelberg. Springer-Verlag.
Yi Luan, Luheng He, Mari Ostendorf, and Hannaneh
Hajishirzi. 2018. Multi-task identiﬁcation of enti-
ties, relations, and coreference for scientiﬁc knowl-
edge graph construction. In Proceedings of the 2018
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-
guage Processing , pages 3219–3232, Brussels, Bel-
gium. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Laurens van der Maaten and Geoffrey E. Hinton. 2008.
Visualizing data using t-sne. In Journal of Machine
Learning Research .
Tomas Mikolov, Ilya Sutskever, Kai Chen, Greg Cor-
rado, and Jeffrey Dean. 2013. Distributed represen-
tations of words and phrases and their composition-
ality. In Proceedings of the 26th International Con-
ference on Neural Information Processing Systems
- Volume 2 , NIPS’13, page 3111–3119, Red Hook,
NY , USA. Curran Associates Inc.
Sandra Mitrovi ´c and Henning M ¨uller. 2015. Summa-
rizing citation contexts of scientiﬁc publications. In
Experimental IR Meets Multilinguality, Multimodal-
ity, and Interaction , pages 154–165, Cham. Springer
International Publishing.
Mark Neumann, Daniel King, Iz Beltagy, and Waleed
Ammar. 2019. ScispaCy: Fast and robust models
for biomedical natural language processing. In Pro-
ceedings of the 18th BioNLP Workshop and Shared
Task, pages 319–327, Florence, Italy. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Benjamin Nye, Junyi Jessy Li, Roma Patel, Yinfei
Yang, Iain Marshall, Ani Nenkova, and Byron Wal-
lace. 2018. A corpus with multi-level annotations
of patients, interventions and outcomes to supportlanguage processing for medical literature. In Pro-
ceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers) , pages 197–207, Melbourne, Australia. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Matthew Peters, Mark Neumann, Mohit Iyyer, Matt
Gardner, Christopher Clark, Kenton Lee, and Luke
Zettlemoyer. 2018a. Deep contextualized word rep-
resentations. In Proceedings of the 2018 Confer-
ence of the North American Chapter of the Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-
guage Technologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers) , pages
2227–2237, New Orleans, Louisiana. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Matthew Peters, Mark Neumann, Luke Zettlemoyer,
and Wen-tau Yih. 2018b. Dissecting contextual
word embeddings: Architecture and representation.
InProceedings of the 2018 Conference on Em-
pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ,
pages 1499–1509, Brussels, Belgium. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Vahed Qazvinian and Dragomir R. Radev. 2008. Sci-
entiﬁc paper summarization using citation summary
networks. In Proceedings of the 22nd International
Conference on Computational Linguistics (Coling
2008) , pages 689–696, Manchester, UK. Coling
2008 Organizing Committee.
Dragomir R. Radev, Pradeep Muthukrishnan, and Va-
hed Qazvinian. 2009. The acl anthology network
corpus. In Proceedings of the 2009 Workshop on
Text and Citation Analysis for Scholarly Digital Li-
braries , NLPIR4DL ’09, page 54–61, USA. Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics.
Alec Radford, Jeff Wu, Rewon Child, David Luan,
Dario Amodei, and Ilya Sutskever. 2019. Language
models are unsupervised multitask learners. N/A.
Tarek Saier and Michael F ¨arber. 2019. Bibliometric-
enhanced arxiv: A data set for paper-based and
citation-based tasks. In Proceedings of the 8th
International Workshop on Bibliometric-enhanced
Information Retrieval (BIR 2019) co-located with
the 41st European Conference on Information Re-
trieval (ECIR 2019), Cologne, Germany, April 14,
2019 , volume 2345 of CEUR Workshop Proceed-
ings, pages 14–26. CEUR-WS.org.
Tarek Saier and Michael F ¨arber. 2020. unarxive: a
large scholarly data set with publications’ full-text,
annotated in-text citations, and links to metadata.
Scientometrics .
Zhihong Shen, Hao Ma, and Kuansan Wang. 2018.
A web-scale system for scientiﬁc knowledge explo-
ration. In Proceedings of ACL 2018, System Demon-
strations , pages 87–92, Melbourne, Australia. Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics.
Henry Small. 1973. Co-citation in the scientiﬁc liter-
ature: A new measure of the relationship between
---PAGE---
4980two documents. Journal of the American Society for
Information Science , 24(4):265–269.
Jie Tang, Jing Zhang, Limin Yao, Juanzi Li, Li Zhang,
and Zhong Su. 2008. Arnetminer: Extraction and
mining of academic social networks. In Proceed-
ings of the 14th ACM SIGKDD International Con-
ference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining ,
KDD ’08, page 990–998, New York, NY , USA. As-
sociation for Computing Machinery.
Simone Teufel, Advaith Siddharthan, and Dan Tidhar.
2006. Automatic classiﬁcation of citation function.
InProceedings of the 2006 Conference on Empiri-
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages
103–110, Sydney, Australia. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.
Dominika Tkaczyk, Andrew Collins, Paraic Sheri-
dan, and Joeran Beel. 2018. Machine learning vs.
rules and out-of-the-box vs. retrained: An evalua-
tion of open-source bibliographic reference and cita-
tion parsers. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM/IEEE
on Joint Conference on Digital Libraries , JCDL ’18,
page 99–108, New York, NY , USA. Association for
Computing Machinery.
Caleb M. Trujillo and Tammy M. Long. 2018. Doc-
ument co-citation analysis to enhance transdisci-
plinary research. Science Advances , 4(1).
Marco Valenzuela, Vu Ha, and Oren Etzioni. 2015.
Identifying meaningful citations. AAAI .
Lucy Lu Wang, Kyle Lo, Yoganand Chandrasekhar,
Russell Reas, Jiangjiang Yang, Darrin Eide, Kathryn
Funk, Rodney Kinney, Ziyang Liu, William Merrill,
Paul Mooney, Dewey Murdick, Devvret Rishi, Jerry
Sheehan, Zhihong Shen, Brandon Stilson, Alex D.
Wade, Kuansan Wang, Chris Wilhelm, Boya Xie,
Douglas Raymond, Daniel S. Weld, Oren Etzioni,
and Sebastian Kohlmeier. 2020. CORD-19: The
Covid-19 Open Research Dataset.
Yonghui Wu, Mike Schuster, Zhifeng Chen, Quoc V .
Le, Mohammad Norouzi, Wolfgang Macherey,
Maxim Krikun, Yuan Cao, Qin Gao, Klaus
Macherey, Jeff Klingner, Apurva Shah, Melvin
Johnson, Xiaobing Liu, Lukasz Kaiser, Stephan
Gouws, Yoshikiyo Kato, Taku Kudo, Hideto
Kazawa, Keith Stevens, George Kurian, Nishant
Patil, Wei Wang, Cliff Young, Jason Smith, Jason
Riesa, Alex Rudnick, Oriol Vinyals, Gregory S.
Corrado, Macduff Hughes, and Jeffrey Dean. 2016.
Google’s neural machine translation system: Bridg-
ing the gap between human and machine translation.
arXiv , abs/1609.08144.
Xiao Yu, Quanquan Gu, Mianwei Zhou, and Jiawei
Han. 2012. Citation prediction in heterogeneous
bibliographic networks. In SDM .
---PAGE---
4981A Background & Terminology
In this work, we distinguish between bibliography
entries and inline citations. A bibliography en-
tryis an item in a paper’s bibliography that refers
to another paper. It is represented in a structured
format that can be used for paper-identifying fea-
tures such as title, authors, year, and venue or jour-
nal, and for journal articles, the volume, issue,
and pages. Also commonly represented are unique
document identiﬁers such as the Document Object
Identiﬁer (DOI), arXiv identiﬁer, or PubMed iden-
tiﬁer. Common formats for bibliography entries
are MLA, APA, Vancouver-, and Chicago- style,
among others, which are different ways of repre-
senting these various features for document iden-
tiﬁcation.
There is often variation in the representation
of certain ﬁelds. For example, Authors can in-
clude the ﬁrst names of each author or only their
ﬁrst initials. In many academic disciplines, jour-
nal publications are the norm, whereas confer-
ence proceedings dominate in ﬁelds such as Com-
puter Science; conference proceedings tend to lack
journal-related features such as Volume ,Issue , and
Pages . Bibliography entry demarcation also varies
between different formats. In some cases, each en-
try is preceded by a citation marker (e.g. “[1]” or
“[ABC2019]”) that is used throughout the text of
the paper to denote inline citations.
Aninline citation is a mention span within the
paper’s abstract or body text that refers to one of
the entries in its bibliography.
“ABC (2019) present model 1, which
outperforms model 2 (XYZ (2019)).”
In this example, the narrative inline citation
ABC (2019) appears as a noun phrase in the
sentence while the parenthetical inline citation
(XYZ, 2019) is inserted into the sentence as an
aside. A sentence remains grammatically correct
when parenthetical citations are removed. Other
styles of parenthetical citations include, but are not
limited to, BRACKET -style numbers (e.g. “[1, 3-
5]”) and OTHER styles such as superscripts (e.g.
“1;2”), both of which refer to numbered entries
in the bibliography. Bibliography entries with-
out numbered entries or citation markers are typi-
cally referenced inline using NAME -YEAR format
asABC (2019) or (XYZ, 2019) in the example
above.Additionally, an inline reference is a span in a
paper that refers to another part of the paper, for
example, references to ﬁgures, tables, equations,
proofs, sections, or appendices. These often take
on the form of:
“InFigure 3, we show the relationship
between A and B.”
where Figure 3 refers to a plot displayed on a sep-
arate page. These inline references can be im-
portant for understanding the relationship between
text and objects within the paper.
B PDF ﬁlters
Prior to running G ROBID , we ﬁlter out PDFs that
(i) produce an error when processed using the
Python library PyPDF2,20(ii) have greater than 50
pages (more likely to be a dissertation or report),
(iii) have page widths greater than page heights
(more likely to be slides), and (iv) those which
fail to be extracted using pdfalto, the variant of
pdftoxml used by G ROBID .
Numbers of PDFs removed by these ﬁlters are
given in Table 8.
Filter Number of PDFs
PyPDF2 error 0.54M
Over 50 pages 2.27M
Page width>height 0.28M
PDFAlto error 0.21M
Table 8: PDFs ﬁltered out before G ROBID processing
C The paper clustering problem
In academic ﬁelds in which preprint publishing is
common (e.g. arXiv), the notion of a “paper” is
somewhat ambiguous. For example, if a published
paper differs from its arXiv preprint (as it often
does), are the two documents considered separate
papers for the purposes of citation? What about
different arXiv preprint drafts tagged as different
versions but under the same arXiv identiﬁer?
In this work, each “paper” of interest is actu-
ally a collection (or cluster) of highly-similar (but
not necessarily identical) documents. These paper
clusters, provided by Semantic Scholar, are con-
structed to reﬂect how authors tend to view their
20Used to determine PDF page number and page dimen-
sions
---PAGE---
4982own papers; for example, most authors would con-
sider their arXiv preprint and its associated pub-
lished version to be the same “paper”. For practi-
cal concerns in constructing S2ORC, we further
require that one document within the cluster be
the canonical document used to represent the pa-
per cluster.
There are issues with deﬁning a paper to be a
collection of documents. For example, suppose a
paper cluster contains both an arXiv preprint and
a peer-reviewed draft. And suppose another pa-
per cites the arXiv preprint critiquing content that
has been updated in the peer-reviewed draft. If the
peer-reviewed draft is chosen as the canonical rep-
resentation of the paper cluster, then the citation
context would not accurately capture the rationale
of that reference. While worth noting, we believe
such cases are rare and do not affect the vast ma-
jority of citation contexts.
D S2ORC evaluation criteria
Paper cluster quality For each paper cluster,
we compare the selected canonical Title andAu-
thors ﬁelds with the title and authors of the se-
lected canonical PDF. The Title ﬁeld is labeled cor-
rect if it exactly matches the title seen on the PDF,
with some allowance for different capitalization
and minor differences in special character repre-
sentation (e.g. “ ” versus “gamma”) and ignoring
whitespace. The Authors ﬁeld is labeled correct
if all authors on the PDF are presented in the cor-
rect order, with some allowance for variation in the
surface form. This is to avoid penalizing publisher
metadata for providing a ﬁrst initial (instead of the
ﬁrst name) or omitting middle names or titles (e.g.
“Dr.”, “PhD”).
Paper-Bibliography linking For each paper-
bibliography pair, we compare the selected canon-
icalTitle andAuthors ﬁelds in the structured bib-
liography entry to the selected canonical Title and
Authors ﬁelds of the linked paper cluster. The Ti-
tleﬁelds are labeled as a match under the same
criteria described above for matching paper clus-
terTitle ﬁelds and PDF titles. The Authors ﬁelds
are labeled as a match if there is substantial over-
lap in the names of the authors. For example, if
authors A, B and C are in the bibliography entry
and the linked paper cluster has authors A and B,
then this is still considered a match. We note that
in our evaluation, differences in the two sets of au-
thor names primarily stems from incorrectly writ-ten bibliography entries or mistakes in publisher-
provided metadata.
E Training corpus sizes for other
language models
Language model Training data
ELM O
(Peters et al., 2018a)1BW (800M)
Wikipedia (1.9B)
WMT 2008-2012 (3.6B)
BERT
(Devlin et al., 2019)BooksCorpus (800M)
Wikipedia (2.5B)
ROBERT A
(Liu et al., 2019b)BooksCorpus (800M)
CC-News ( ~3.8B)
OpenWebText ( ~1.9B)
Stories ( ~1.6B)
GPT2
(Radford et al., 2019)Web Text Corpus ( ~2.8B)
Table 9: Reported and estimated (several papers report
corpus size in terms of bytes) token counts of training
data used to train language models.
We estimate that all of S2ORC consists of
approximately 25B tokens of full body text and
15B tokens of abstract text. As demonstrated
for S2ORC-S CIBERT pretraining, aggressively-
cleaned body text from the PDF-parsed subset of
S2ORC still yields approximately 16.5B tokens.
The size of S2ORC makes it more than sufﬁ-
cient for pretraining large language models such
as ELM O, BERT, R OBERT A, GPT2, and oth-
ers, whose reported training data sizes are given in
Table 9 for comparison.
Figure 4: Visualization of contextual representations
from layer 9 of S2ORC-S CIBERT on numeric surface
forms in a subsample of body text from S2ORC. La-
bels are heuristics based on token-level patterns.
---PAGE---
4983F Numeric representations in
S2ORC-S CIBERT
Academic papers contain substantially more di-
verse uses of numeric surface forms than typical
web text, such as experimental results, equations,
citation references and section/ﬁgure markers. To
demonstrate this, we cluster contextual word rep-
resentations involving numbers, heuristically la-
beling them into one of 8 categories based on sur-
face patterns. Examining the progression of the
contextual representations through the layers of
BERT reveals an initial focus on sentence position
(expected, due to explicit position embeddings)
and magnitude, with later layers integrating sub-
stantial contextual information, such as the pres-
ence of inline L ATEX identiﬁers, citation indica-
tors and PDF references. Following Peters et al.
(2018b); Liu et al. (2019a), we observe that the ﬁ-
nal 2-3 BERT layers provide embeddings that ex-
cel at predictive language modeling; as such, Fig-
ure 4 uses embeddings from layer 9 of S2ORC-
SCIBERT.
---PAGE---
